 
 
 
Leases (Topic 842) 
 
 
 
 
No. 2021-09 
November 2021 
Discount Rate for Lessees That Are Not  
Public Business Entities 
An Amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification® 

The FASB Accounting Standards Codification ® is the source of authoritative 
generally accepted accounting principles  (GAAP) recognized by the FASB to be 
applied by nongovernmental entities. An  Accounting Standards Update is not 
authoritative; rather, it is a document that communicates how the Accounting 
Standards Codification is being amended. It also provides other information to help 
a user of GAAP understan d how and why GAAP is c hanging and when the 
changes will be effective.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For additional copies of this Account ing Standards Update and information on 
applicable prices and discount rates contact: 
 
Order Department 
Financial Accounting Standards Board 
401 Merritt 7 
PO Box 5116 
Norwalk, CT 06856-5116 
 
Please ask for our Product Code No. ASU2021-09. 
 
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SERIES (ISSN 0885-9051) is published monthly  
with the exception of January, Marc h, July, and October by the Financial 
Accounting Foundation, 401 Merritt 7, PO Box 5116, Norwalk, CT 06856-5116. 
Periodicals postage paid at Norwalk, CT and at additional mailing offices. The full 
subscription rate is $328 per year. POSTMASTER: Send address changes to 
Financial Accounting Series, 401 Merritt 7, PO Box 5116, Norwalk, CT 06856-
5116. | No. 511 
  Copyright © 2021 by Financial Accounting Foundation. All rights reserved. 
Content copyrighted by Financial Accounting Foundation may not be 
reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without 
the prior written permission of the Financial Accounting Foundation. Financial 
Accounting Foundation claims no copy right in any portion hereof that 
constitutes a work of the United States Government. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An Amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification® 
No. 2021-09 
November 2021 
Leases (Topic 842) 
Discount Rate for Lessees That Are Not 
Public Business Entities 
Accounting Standards Update 
Financial Accounting Standards Board


  

 
 
Accounting Standards Update 2021-09 
Leases (Topic 842) 
Discount Rate for Lessees That Are Not Public Business 
Entities 
November 2021 
CONTENTS 
Page 
Numbers 
 
Summary ........................................................................................................... 1–3 
Amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification® ..................... 5–10 
Background Information and Basis for Conclusions ...................................... 11–19 
Amendments to the GAAP Taxonomy ................................................................. 20



 
1 
Summary 
Why Is the FASB Issuing This Accounting Standards 
Update (Update)? 
On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-
02, Leases (Topic 842),  to increase transparency and comparability among 
organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet 
and disclosing key information about leasing transactions. 
As part of the Board’s post-implementati on review of Topic 842, the Board and 
staff continue to assist stakeholders by  responding to inquiries received and 
proactively seeking feedback on potential implementation issues that have arisen 
as public business entities began implement ing Topic 842. Since the issuance of 
Update 2016-02, the Board has issued six Updates to assist stakeholders with 
implementation issues and two Updates deferring the effective date for private 
companies and certain not-for-profit organizations. The Board also has created a 
dedicated section on its website for post-implementation review. The staff 
continues to perform outreach with stak eholders to determine whether the 
standard is accomplishing its stated objective and to evaluate the implementation 
and continuing compliance costs and benefits related to Topic 842.   
Additionally, in September 2020, the Board hosted two public roundtable sessions 
to solicit feedback from a cross sect ion of stakeholder groups. During those 
sessions, some private company st akeholders discussed the costs and 
complexities of applying the standard. Th ose stakeholders suggested that the 
Board amend the practical expedient that allows the use of a risk-free discount rate 
as an accounting policy election (risk-free ra te election) for entities that are not 
public business entities. The Board is i ssuing the amendments in this Update to 
provide lessees that are not public busines s entities with more flexibility in how 
they determine the discount rate for their leases and make the risk-free rate 
election to reduce their initial adopt ion and ongoing implementation costs 
associated with Update 2016-02.  
Who Is Affected by the Amendments in This Update?  
The amendments in this Update affect lessees that are not public business entities, 
including all not-for-profit entities (whethe r or not they are conduit bond obligors) 
and employee benefit plans (whether or not they file or furnish financial statements 
with or to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission).  

2 
What Are the Main Provisions? 
Topic 842 currently provides lessees that  are not public business entities with a 
practical expedient that allows them to elect, as an accounting policy, to use a risk-
free rate as the discount rate for all leases. The amendments in this Update allow 
those lessees to make the risk-free rate  election by class of underlying asset, 
rather than at the entity-wide level. An entity that makes the risk-free rate election 
is required to disclose which asset classes it has elected to apply a risk-free rate. 
The amendments require that when the ra te implicit in the lease is readily 
determinable for any individual lease, the lessee use that rate (rather than a risk-
free rate or an incremental borrowing rate), regardless of whether it has made the 
risk-free rate election.  
How Do the Main Provisions Differ from Current 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and 
Why Are They an Improvement? 
Under the current guidance, a lessee that is not a public business entity that makes 
the risk-free rate election is required to use a risk-free rate for all leases. The 
amendments in this Update provide more fl exibility for those lessees by allowing 
them to make the election by class of underlying asset, rather than at the entity-
wide level.  
Stakeholders also noted that the interaction between the risk-free rate election and 
a lessee’s use of the rate implicit in the lease is unclear under current GAAP. The 
amendments in this Update require that a lessee use the rate implicit in the lease 
when it is readily determinable, instead of a risk-free rate or incremental borrowing 
rate.  
When Will the Amendments Be Effective and What Are 
the Transition Requirements? 
The effective date for this Update is different for entities that have not yet adopted 
Topic 842 as of November 11, 2021, and those that have. Topic 842 becomes 
effective for private companies and not-for-profit organizations that are not conduit 
bond obligors for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, and interim 
periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022. Because earlier 
application is permitted (and Topic 842 is already effective for certain not-for-profit 
organizations that are conduit bond obli gors), some private companies and not-
for-profit organizations have already adopted Topic 842. Entities that have not yet 
adopted Topic 842 as of November 11,  2021, are required to adopt the 
amendments in this Update at the same time that they adopt Topic 842. Those 
entities should apply the ex isting transition provisions in paragraph 842-10-65-1. 

 
3 
Those provisions require t hat an entity use either of the following transition 
methods: (1) apply the guidance to exis ting leases retrospectively with the 
cumulative-effect adjustment from transitio n recognized at the beginning of the 
earliest period presented or (2) apply the guidance to existing leases on a modified 
retrospective basis with the cumulati ve-effect adjustment from transition 
recognized in the opening balance of re tained earnings at the beginning of the 
period of adoption.  
For entities that have adopted Topic 842 as of November 11, 2021, the 
amendments in this Update are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 
15, 2021, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 
2022. Earlier application is permitted. Entities are required to apply the 
amendments on a modified retrospective basis to leases that exist at the beginning 
of the fiscal year of adoption of a fina l Update. The adoption of the amendments 
should not be considered an event that would cause remeasurement and 
reallocation of the consideration in the contract (including lease payments) or 
reassessment of lease term or classification. 
 
 
 



 
5 
Amendments to the  
FASB Accounting Standards Codification® 
Introduction 
1. The Accounting Standards Codifica tion is amended as described in 
paragraphs 2–8. Terms from the Master Glossary are in bold type. Added text is 
underlined, and deleted text is struck out. 
Amendments to Subtopic 842-20 
2. Amend paragraph 842-20-30-3, with a link to transition paragraph 842-10-
65-6, as follows:   
Leases—Lessee 
Initial Measurement 
> Discount Rate for the Lease 
842-20-30-3 A lessee should use the rate implicit in the lease whenever that rate 
is readily determinable. If the rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable, 
a lessee uses its incremental borrowing rate . A lessee that is not a public 
business entity is permitted to use a risk-free discount rate for the lease instead of 
its incremental borrowing rate, determined using a period comparable with that of 
the lease term, as an accounting policy election made by class of underlying asset 
for all leases.  
3. Amend paragraph 842-20-50-1 and add paragraph 842-20-50-10, with a link 
to transition paragraph 842-10-65-6, as follows: 
Disclosure 
842-20-50-1 The objective of the disclosure requ irements is to enable users of 
financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows 
arising from leases. To achieve that objective, a lessee shall disclose qualitative 
and quantitative information about all of the following: 
a. Its leases (as described in par agraphs 842-20-50-3(a) through (b) and 
842-20-50-7 through 50-1050-8) 

6 
b. The significant judgments made in applying the requirements in this Topic 
to those leases (as described in paragraph 842-20-50-3(c)) 
c. The amounts recognized in the fi nancial statements relating to those 
leases (as described in paragraphs 842-20-50-4 and 842-20-50-6). 
842-20-50-10 A lessee that makes the accounting policy election in paragraph 
842-20-30-3 to use a risk-free rate as the discount rate shall disclose its election 
and the class or classes of underlying assets to which the election has been 
applied. 
4. Amend paragraphs 842-40-50-1 throu gh 50-2, with a link to transition 
paragraph 842-10-65-6, as follows: 
Leases—Sale and Leaseback Transactions 
Disclosure 
842-40-50-1 If a seller-lessee or a buyer-lessor enters into a sale and leaseback 
transaction that is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 842-40-25-4 and 
842-40-30-1 through 30-3, it shall provid e the disclosures required in paragraphs 
842-20-50-1 through 50-1050-9 for a seller-lessee or paragraphs 842-30-50-1 
through 50-13 for a buyer-lessor. 
842-40-50-2 In addition to the disclosures required by paragraphs 842-20-50-1 
through 50-1050-9, a seller-lessee that  enters into a sale and leaseback 
transaction shall disclose both of the following: 
a. The main terms and conditions of that transaction 
b. Any gains or losses arising from the transaction separately from gains or 
losses on disposal of other assets. 
5. Amend paragraph 842-10-65-1 and it s related heading and add paragraph 
842-10-65-6 and its related heading as follows: 
Leases—Overall 
Transition and Open Effective Date Information 
> Transition Related to Accounting Standards Updates No. 2016-02, Leases 
(Topic 842), No. 2018-01, Leases (Topic 842): Land Easement Practical 
Expedient for Transition to Topic 842, No. 2018-10, Codification 
Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): 
Targeted Improvements, No. 2018-20, Leases (Topic 842): Narrow-Scope 
Improvements for Lessors, No. 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842): Codification 
Improvements, No. 2019-10, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 

 
7 
326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases (Topic 842): 
Effective Dates, and No. 2020-05, Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
(Topic 606) and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates for Certain Entities, No. 
2021-05, Leases (Topic 842): Lessors—Certa in Leases with Variable Lease 
Payments, and No. 2021-09, Leases (Topic 842): Discount Rate for Lessees 
That Are Not Public Business Entities   
842-10-65-1 The following represents the transition and effective date information 
related to Accounting Standards Updates No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), No. 
2018-01, Leases (Topic 842): Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition 
to Topic 842, No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases , No. 
2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements , No. 2018-20, Leases 
(Topic 842): Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors , No. 2019-01, Leases 
(Topic 842): Codification Improvements , No. 2019-10, Financial Instruments—
Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases 
(Topic 842): Effective Dates , and No. 2020-05, Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers (Topic 606) and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates for Certain 
Entities, No. 2021-05, Leases (Topic 842): Lessors—Certain Leases with Variable 
Lease Payments , and No. 2021-09, Leases (Topic 842): Discount Rate for 
Lessees That Are Not Public Business Entities: [Note: See paragraph 842-10-S65-
1 for an SEC Staff Announcement on transition related to Update 2016-02.] 
[The remainder of this paragraph is not shown here because it is 
unchanged.] 
> Transition Related to Accounting Standards Update No. 2021-09, Leases 
(Topic 842): Discount Rate for Lessees That Are Not Public Business 
Entities 
842-10-65-6 The following represents the transition and effective date information 
related to Accounting Standards Update No. 2021-09, Leases (Topic 842): 
Discount Rate for Lessees That Are Not Public Business Entities: 
a. An entity that has not yet adopted the pending content that links to 
paragraph 842-10-65-1 as of November 11, 2021, shall apply the pending 
content that links to this paragraph to all new and existing leases when 
the entity first applies the pending content that links to paragraph 842-10-
65-1. That entity shall apply the sa me transition method elected for the 
pending content that links to paragraph 842-10-65-1.  
b. An entity that has adopted the pending content that links to paragraph 
842-10-65-1 as of November 11, 2021, shall: 
1. Apply the pending cont ent that links to this paragraph for financial 
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 
2021, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after 

8 
December 15, 2022. Earlier applic ation is permitted as of the 
beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.  
2. Apply the pending content that links to this paragraph on a modified 
retrospective basis to leases affected by the amendments existing 
as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption by adjusting the 
lease liability, which shall be ca lculated based on the discount rate 
and remaining lease term at the beg inning of the fiscal year of 
adoption.  An entity shall recognize the amount of the change in the 
lease liability as an adjustment to the corresponding right-of-use 
asset, unless: 
i. The carrying amount of the right- of-use asset is reduced to zero, 
in which case the entity shall recognize any remaining amount 
of the adjustment to opening retained earnings at the beginning 
of the fiscal year of adoption.  
ii. The adjustment would increase a right-of-use asset that was 
previously impaired, in which ca se the entity shall record the 
adjustment to opening retained earnings at the beginning of the 
fiscal year of adoption.  
c. An entity within the scope of (b) sha ll not treat the adoption of the pending 
content that links to this paragraph  as an event that would require the 
entity to:  
1. Remeasure and reallocate the c onsideration in the contract in 
accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-36. 
2. Reassess the lease term or a lessee option to purchase the 
underlying asset in accordance with paragraph 842-10-35-1. 
3. Remeasure the lease payments in accordance with paragraph 842-
10-35-4. 
4. Reassess lease classification in accordance with paragraph 842-10-
25-1. 
d. An entity within the scope of (b) that has a dopted the pending content 
that links to this paragraph shall disclose the following as of the beginning 
of the fiscal year of adopt ion (rather than at the beginning of the earliest 
period presented):  
1. The information required by paragraph 250-10-50-1(a) and (b)(3), if 
applicable 
2. The recognized amount of changes in lease liabilities and 
corresponding right-of-use assets resulting from the transition 
adjustment.  
For an entity within the scope of (b), at the date of adoption of the pending content 
that links to this paragraph, the entity may choose to app ly or discontinue using 
the risk-free rate for any class of underlying asset.  
  

 
9 
Amendments to Status Sections 
6. Amend paragraph 842-10-00-1, by adding the following items to the table, as 
follows:  
842-10-00-1 The following table identifies the changes made to this Subtopic. 
 
Paragraph Action 
Accounting 
Standards 
Update Date 
842-10-65-1 Amended 2021-09 11/11/2021 
842-10-65-6 Added 2021-09 11/11/2021 
 
7. Amend paragraph 842-20-00-1, by adding the following items to the table, as 
follows:  
842-20-00-1 The following table identifies the changes made to this Subtopic. 
 
Paragraph Action 
Accounting 
Standards 
Update Date 
842-20-30-3 Amended 2021-09 11/11/2021 
842-20-50-1 Amended 2021-09 11/11/2021 
842-20-50-10 Added 2021-09 11/11/2021 
 
8. Amend paragraph 842-40-00-1, by adding the following items to the table, as 
follows:  
842-40-00-1 The following table identifies the changes made to this Subtopic. 
 
Paragraph Action 
Accounting 
Standards 
Update Date 
842-40-50-1 Amended 2021-09 11/11/2021 
842-40-50-2 Amended 2021-09 11/11/2021 
 
  

10 
The amendments in this Update were adopted by the unanimous vote of the seven 
members of the Financial Accounting Standards Board: 
Richard R. Jones, Chair 
James L. Kroeker, Vice Chairman 
Christine A. Botosan 
Gary R. Buesser 
Frederick L. Cannon 
Susan M. Cosper 
Marsha L. Hunt

 
11 
Background Information and  
Basis for Conclusions 
Introduction  
BC1. The following summarizes the Board’s considerations in reaching the 
conclusions in this Update. It includes reasons for accepting certain approaches 
and rejecting others. Individual Board members gave greater weight to some 
factors than to others. 
BC2. On February 25, 2016, the Board issued Accounting Standards Update 
No. 2016-02 , Leases (Topic 842),  to increase transparency and comparability 
among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the 
balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing transactions.  
BC3. As part of the Board’s post-implem entation review of Topic 842, the Board 
and staff continue to assist stakeholders by responding to inquiries received and 
proactively seeking feedback on potential implementation issues that have arisen 
as public business entities began implement ing Topic 842. Since the issuance of 
Update 2016-02, the Board has issued six Updates to assist stakeholders with 
implementation issues and two Updates deferring the effective date for private 
companies and certain not-for-profit organizations. The Board also has created a 
dedicated section on its website for post-implementation review. The staff 
continues to perform outreach with stak eholders to determine whether the 
standard is accomplishing its stated objective and to evaluate the implementation 
and continuing compliance costs and benefits related to Topic 842.   
BC4. The Board and staff also cont inue to perform outreach with various 
stakeholders to learn about any additio nal issues that have arisen since the 
adoption of Topic 842 by public business entities. The amendments in this Update 
address some of the feedback received from  stakeholders through this process. 
Specifically, the amendments allow entities that are not public business entities to, 
as an improvement to the existing practical expedient, make the risk-free discount 
rate accounting policy election (the risk-free rate election) by class of underlying 
asset, rather than at the entity-wide level.  
  

12 
Background Information 
BC5. Topic 842 requires that a lessee discount its lease payments using the 
rate implicit in the lease when that ra te is readily determinable. When the rate 
implicit in the lease is not readily determinable, a lessee is required to use its 
incremental borrowing rate. A lessee’s di scount rate directly affects lease 
classification and the measurement of a lessee’s lease liability and corresponding 
right-of-use asset. In an operating lease, the discount rate does not affect the 
income statement because lease payments are recognized on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term. In a finance lease, the discount rate does not affect total cost 
over the lease term. However, the discoun t rate affects the amounts recognized 
as interest and amortization and the timi ng of that recognition, which affects the 
income statement. For entities transitioni ng to Topic 842, the discount rate is 
determined as of the application date of the guidance in the Topic, and afterwards 
it is determined at the co mmencement date of the lease.  Entities subsequently 
update that rate only upon the occurrence of a lease modification not accounted 
for as a separate contract and certain types of remeasurement events (for 
example, changes in the lease term or the assessment of a lessee purchase 
option). 
BC6. Topic 842 allows, as a practical expe dient, that lessees that are not public 
business entities use a risk-free rate as the discount rate for all leases. The Board 
provided that election after concluding that it could be too costly for some of those 
entities to determine their incremental borrowing rates. The election allows a 
lessee to use a risk-free rate, calculated for a period that is comparable to the lease 
term, as the discount rate for all of its leases. 
BC7. During implementation of Topic 842 by public companies, and through 
the post-implementation review proce ss, preparers and practitioners provided 
feedback that the processes for determi ning and substantiating a lessee’s 
incremental borrowing rate were both costly and complex to implement. They 
indicated that those processes likely w ould be more burdensome for entities that 
are not public business entities because those entities may not have sophisticated 
treasury functions or readily available information (such as quoted or comparable 
credit spreads) to use in developing their incremental borrowing rates. Because of 
this, stakeholders noted that entities that are not public business entities may have 
an even greater need than their public company counterparts to engage external 
valuation experts to comply with the in cremental borrowing rate requirements in 
Topic 842, which would disproportionately increase implementation costs for those 
entities. For those reasons, stakeholders indicated that calculating and using an 
incremental borrowing rate to discount all lease liabilities may not be a cost-
effective option for many lessees that are not public business entities. 
BC8. Although lessees t hat are not public busi ness entities may use the 
existing risk-free rate election to avoid calculating an incremental borrowing rate, 
some private company stakeholders expressed reluctance to use the risk-free rate 

 
13 
election for all leases. Those stakeholders noted that a risk-free rate (for example, 
a U.S. Treasury rate) is low compared with the average incremental borrowing rate 
based on public company disclosures. They expressed concern that using the risk-
free rate election would result in recognizing lease liabilities and right-of-use assets 
that are greater t han those recognized using the lessee’s incremental borrowing 
rate or the rate implicit in the lease (if that rate is readily determinable). It also could 
cause leases that otherwise would be cl assified as operating leases to be 
classified as finance leases.  
BC9. At the September 20 20 leases public roundtable sessions, certain 
stakeholders proposed amending the guidance to allow a lessee to make the risk-
free rate election by class of underlying asset, rather than at the entity-wide level. 
Stakeholders noted that some lessees t hat are not public business entities may 
want to use their incremental borrowing rates to calculate lease liabilities for 
material asset classes (such as real estate) but prefer the simpler and less costly 
option of using a risk-free rate for asset classes that have lower values or greater 
volumes of leases (such as office eq uipment). Many stakeholders, including 
private company preparers and practitioners, supported that alternative. 
BC10. The Board issued proposed Accounting Standards Update, Leases (Topic 
842): Discount Rate for Lessees That Are Not Public Business Entities, on June 
16, 2021, and received 20 comment letters . Overall, respondents supported the 
amendments in the proposed Update, not ing that they woul d provide greater 
flexibility to lessees that are not public  business entities in applying the risk-free 
rate election.  
Benefits and Costs 
BC11. The objective of financial reporting is  to provide information that is useful 
to present and potential investors, cr editors, donors, and other capital market 
participants in making rational investme nt, credit, and similar resource allocation 
decisions. However, the benefits of prov iding information for that purpose should 
justify the related costs. Present and potential invest ors, creditors, donors, and 
other users of financial information be nefit from improvements in financial 
reporting, while the costs to implemen t new guidance are borne primarily by 
present investors. The Board’s assessment of the costs and benefits of issuing 
new guidance is unavoidably more qualit ative than quantitative because there is 
no method to objectively measure the costs to implement new guidance or to 
quantify the value of improved information in financial statements. 
BC12. Overall, the Board concluded t hat the amendments in this Update will 
reduce the cost and complexity of implementing Topic 842 for lessees that are not 
public business entities. The Board conc luded that amending the risk-free rate 
election to make it an election by class of  underlying asset provides entities that 
are not public business entities with more flexibility when making the risk-free rate 
election. Consequently, the Board expects that more entities that are not public 

14 
business entities will make the election. Furthermore, the amendments maintain 
the decision usefulness of information provided to present and potential investors, 
creditors, donors, and other users. That is, the Board has already allowed the use 
of the risk-free rate but as an entity-wide election. The amendments allow a lessee 
making the election to use the incremental borrowing rate for some asset classes 
and also require that a lessee use its rate implicit in the lease for a lease when that 
rate is readily determinable. The Board believes that this results in financial 
reporting that better reflects the econom ics of the associated lease transactions. 
Further discussion of the costs and benefits of the amendments is provided below. 
Basis for Conclusions  
Scope 
BC13. The amendments in this Update are limited to entities that are not public 
business entities. According to the definition of public business entity in the Master 
Glossary, not-for-profit entities (inclu ding conduit bond obligors) and employee 
benefit plans are not public business en tities. Therefore, those entities are 
permitted to make the risk-free rate elec tion and are within the scope of this 
Update. 
Increasing the Flexibility of the Risk-Free Rate Election  
BC14. At the April 14, 2021 meeting,  the Board decided to improve the 
application of the existing practical expedi ent by allowing a lessee that is not a 
public business entity to make an accounting policy election to use a risk-free rate 
as the discount rate for its leases by cla ss of underlying asset, rather than at the 
entity-wide level. Additionally, the Board decided to requi re a lessee that is not a 
public business entity to disclose that fa ct and the asset classes to which it has 
elected to apply a risk-free discount rate.  
BC15. The Board concluded that the am endments in this Update provide 
lessees that are not public business entities with more flexibility than do the current 
requirements. The Board acknowledged that a lessee may prefer to use its 
incremental borrowing rate for more significant leases, such as real estate leases, 
for which transactions may be less frequent and of higher dollar value. However, 
the lessee may prefer to use a risk-free ra te for less significant leases, such as 
office equipment leases, for which the transaction volume is higher and the dollar 
value is generally lower. The Board concluded that eliminating the “all or nothing” 
nature of the election may result in wider use of the election by entities that are not 
public business entities, while maintaining the information provided to investors.  
BC16. Respondents to the proposed Up date broadly supported the Board’s 
decision to allow the risk-free rate to be elected by class of underlying asset. For 
the reasons described above, the Board affirmed its decision to allow a lessee that 

 
15 
is not a public business entity to make an accounting policy election to use a risk-
free rate as the discount rate for its leases by class of underlying asset, rather than 
at the entity-wide level.   
Rate Implicit in the Lease  
BC17. The Board also considered the inte raction of the risk-free rate election 
with the guidance on a lessee’s use of the rate implicit in the lease. During 
outreach, several practitioners questioned whether a lessee applying the risk-free 
rate election is required or permitted to use the rate implicit in the lease when that 
rate is readily determinable. Those stakeholders noted that there are two 
supportable interpretations of that gui dance. One interpretation is that the 
guidance requires that a lessee use the rate implicit in the lease when it is readily 
determinable, even if it has applied the risk-free rate election. Another 
interpretation is that because the guidanc e states that the risk-free rate election 
applies to all leases, an entity making the risk-free rate election cannot use the rate 
implicit in the lease. 
BC18. At the April 14, 2021 Board meetin g, the Board decided that a lessee 
should be required to use the rate impl icit in the lease when it is readily 
determinable, regardless of whether t he lessee has made the risk-free rate 
election. For example, if a lessee has ap plied the risk-free rate election to its 
equipment asset class but can readily deter mine the rate implicit in the lease for 
an individual equipment lease, the lessee wo uld use the rate implicit in the lease 
instead of the risk-free rate for that particu lar lease. In making that decision, the 
Board acknowledged that the rate implicit in the lease best reflects the economics 
of the transaction and that practice has consistently interpreted the “readily 
determinable” threshold as a high bar. Therefore, the Board does not expect that 
an entity would have to expend much effort substantiating that it cannot readily 
determine the rate implicit in the lease. 
BC19. Comment letter respondents broa dly agreed that requiring a lessee to 
use the rate implicit in the lease when readily determinable, regardless of whether 
it uses the risk-free rate election, is  operable and should not add costs for 
preparers. For the reasons described abov e, the Board affirmed its decision to 
require a lessee to use the rate implicit in the lease when it is readily determinable, 
regardless of whether the lessee has made the risk-free rate election.  
BC20. The amendments in this Update do not change the guidance on and are 
not intended to change practice for a less ee’s determination of whether the rate 
implicit in the lease is readily determinable. 
  

16 
Discount Rate 
BC21. Some stakeholders who provided feedback on the risk-free rate election 
supported replacing the risk-free rate in that expedient with another specified rate. 
At the December 2, 2020 Bo ard meeting, the Board directed the staff to perform 
research on whether another specified rate should replace a risk-free rate. 
BC22. The Board considered the characteri stics that make a risk-free rate an 
operable rate, including that the rate is publicly published by a reliable source and 
available for differing maturities (lease terms). The Board considered specifying a 
corporate bond rate as the discount rate, noting that such rates are used in other 
Codification Topics. However, corporate bond rates are not publicly published by 
a reliable source. Rather, an average corporate bond rate is made up of underlying 
data (individual bond issues) that are not aggregated in a publicly available forum. 
The underlying data (for exam ple, general data or specif ic industry data) used to 
calculate a corporate bond rate affect the rate. Those factors caused the Board to 
conclude that specifying a co rporate bond rate instead of a risk-free rate would 
add cost and complexity to the application and auditing of that rate, especially for 
smaller entities. The Board also questioned the basis for choosing a specific credit-
rating category (for example, low investment grade or high yield) that would apply 
to the broad range of sizes and types of entities that are not public business 
entities.  
BC23. Comment letter respondents general ly agreed that using a corporate 
bond rate would add costs for preparer s. Respondents did not suggest any 
alternative rate that would meet the operab ility criteria considered by the Board. 
For those reasons, the Board affirmed its dec ision to retain a ri sk-free rate in the 
election.  
Weighted-Average Discount Rate 
BC24. Under Topic 842, lessees are requi red to disclose the weighted-average 
discount rate, separately for operating and finance leases, calculated using the 
discount rate and remaining lease payments for each lease. In the initial phases 
of the project, stakeholders questioned whether allowing lessees that are not 
public business entities to disclose a weighted-average discount rate that 
combined risk-free rates with other rates (the incremental borrowing rate and the 
rate implicit in the lease, when readily determinable) used by a lessee to discount 
its lease liabilities would result in less decision-useful information for users of 
financial statements. Those stakeholders questioned whether separate disclosure 
of the weighted-average discount rate for leases that use a risk-free rate and other 
rates would provide more decision-useful information. 
BC25. The amendments in the proposed Update did not include a separate 
weighted-average discount rate disclosure. However, the Board included a 
question asking for feedback on the costs of providing such a disclosure and 

 
17 
whether that disclosure would provide users with more decision-useful information. 
Most respondents to the proposed Update expressed that such a disclosure would 
impose additional cost on preparers; ho wever, there was mixed feedback on the 
extent of that cost.  
BC26. Because many lessees that are not  public business entities have not yet 
adopted Topic 842 , users of those entities’ fi nancial statements could not yet 
provide detailed feedback on the decisi on usefulness of the weighted-average 
discount rate disclosure. However, in ad ditional outreach, some users indicated 
that (a) a separate weighted-average disc ount rate disclosure might not provide 
much utility without other quantitative disclosures about the asset classes to which 
the risk-free rate election has been applied and (b) other information may be 
available to users of financial statements of entities that are not public business 
entities.  
BC27. On the basis of the feedback summarized in paragraphs BC25 and BC26, 
the Board decided not to require disclosure of separate weighted-average discount 
rates for leases measured using a risk-free discount rate and all other leases 
(those using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate or rate implicit in the lease, 
when readily determinable, as the discount rate for the lease). However, the Board 
directed the staff to continue to broadly monitor the disclosure needs of users of 
financial statements as part of the ongoing post-implementation review of Topic 
842. 
Effective Date and Transition 
BC28. Topic 842 will become effective fo r private companies and not-for-profit 
entities that are not conduit bond obligors for fiscal years beginning after December 
15, 2021, and for interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 
2022. However, some lessees that are not public business entities have elected 
earlier application of (or, in the case of not-for-profit organizations that are conduit 
bond obligors and employee benefit plans that  file or furnish financial statements 
with or to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, were required to 
undertake application of) the guidance in Topic 842. Accordingly, the Board 
provided separate effective date and transition provisions for entities that have not 
yet adopted Topic 842 and those that have.  
Entities That Have Not Adopted Topic 842 
BC29. For entities that have not adopted Topic 842 by November 11, 2021, the 
Board decided that the amendments in th is Update are effective upon an entity’s 
adoption of Topic 842. The Board decided that those entities should follow the 
existing transition requirements of Topic 842 so that the entities do not need to 
perform a separate transition to adopt the amendments. That transition is applied 
either (a) retrospectively to existing leases  with the cumulative effect of transition 

18 
recognized at the beginning of the earli est period presented or (b) on a modified 
retrospective basis to existing leases wit h the cumulative effect of transition 
recognized at the beginning of the peri od of adoption. For the reasons described 
by the Board, most comment letter respondents supported those effective date and 
transition provisions for entities that have not adopted Topic 842.  
Entities That Have Adopted Topic 842 
BC30. For entities that have adopted T opic 842 by November 11, 2021, the 
Board decided that the amen dments in this Update are effective for fiscal years 
beginning after December 15, 2021, and interim periods within fiscal years 
beginning after December 15, 2022. Ear lier application is permitted as of the 
beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.   
BC31. The Board decided to provide a modified retrospective transition method, 
whereby an entity is required to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to its 
opening balance of lease liabilities with the corresponding effect to the opening 
balance of the entity’s right-of-use assets at the beginning of the fiscal year in 
which the entity adopts the amendments in this Update. The cumulative-effect 
adjustment should be calculated for leases existing as of the beginning of the fiscal 
year of adoption using the remaining le ase term and a discount rate assessed at 
the beginning of the fiscal year of adopt ion. Most comment letter respondents 
supported those effective date and transit ion provisions for entities that have 
already adopted Topic 842.  
BC32. To simplify the transition, the Board decided to require that a lessee 
determine the discount rate using the rema ining lease term at  the date that the 
lessee adopts the amendments in this Updat e. This requirement is different from 
the transition requirements in paragraph 842-10-65-1(l) for a lessee adopting Topic 
842, which do not specify whether a lessee is required to use the remaining lease 
term or the original lease term to determine the discount rate to be used in 
transition. The FASB staff pr ovided an interpretation that  either the remaining or 
original lease term would be acceptable when adopting Topic 842. The Board 
noted that the guidance in this Update does not change the transition guidance for 
Topic 842 and is not intended to change practice or previous interpretations in 
applying paragraph 842-10-65-1(l) for the overall adoption of Topic 842. 
BC33. To further simplify transition, t he Board also decided that adopting the 
amendments in this Update should not be  considered an event that would cause 
an entity to remeasure or reallocate the consideration in the contract (including 
lease payments) or reassess lease payments or classification. The Board decided 
this so that a lessee will not incur additional cost and deal with additional 
complexity in reevaluating the inputs to its affected lease liabilities and right-of-use 
assets when adopting the amendments.  
BC34. The Board decided to require certain disclosures in Topic 250, 
Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, about the nature of and the reason for 

 
19 
the change in accounting principle and the cumulative effect of the change on 
retained earnings to provide users of the financial statem ents with transparency 
about the effect of adoptin g the amendments. In response to comment letters on 
the proposed Update, the Board added a requirement that a lessee disclose the 
transition effect on the balances of its lease liabilities and right-of-use assets. That 
disclosure was added to provide greater transparency for users of the financial 
statements on the effect of adopting this Update.  
BC35. Upon adopting this Update, an entity may choose to apply or discontinue 
the use of a risk-free discount rate prev iously made for any class of underlying 
asset. After adopting this Update, a change in the application of the risk-free rate 
election would be a change in accounting policy that would need to be evaluated 
under the appropriate guidance in Topic 250, unless that election to use or not use 
a risk-free discount rate had been for an immaterial asset class because 
accounting policies do not apply to immaterial transactions.   
 

20 
Amendments to the GAAP Taxonomy 
The amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification ® in this 
Accounting Standards Update do not require improvements to the GAAP Financial 
Reporting Taxonomy and the SEC Reporti ng Taxonomy because the Securities 
and Exchange Commission requirements to  provide financial statements in 
interactive format using eXtensible Business Reporting Language do not apply to 
entities that are not public business entities. 
 