 
Leases (Topic 842) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No. 2023-01 
March 2023 
Common Control Arrangements 
An Amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification® 

The FASB Accounting Standards Codification ® is the source of authoritative 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) recognized by the FASB to be 
applied by nongovernmental entities. An Accounting Standards Update is not 
authoritative; rather, it is a document that communicates how the Accoun ting 
Standards Codification is being amended. It also provides other information to help 
a user of GAAP understand how and why GAAP is changing and when the 
changes will be effective.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For additional copies of this Accounting Standards Update a nd information on 
applicable prices and discount rates contact: 
 
Order Department 
Financial Accounting Standards Board 
801 Main Avenue 
PO Box 5116 
Norwalk, CT 06851 
 
Please ask for our Product Code No. ASU2023-01. 
 
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SERIES (ISSN 0885 -9051) is published monthly  
with the exception of March, May, July, August, October, and November  by the 
Financial Accounting Foundation , 801 Main Avenue, Norwalk, CT 06851. 
Periodicals postage paid at Norwalk, CT and at additional mailing offices. The full 
subscription rate is $ 380 per year. POSTMASTER: Send address changes to 
Financial Accounting Series, 801 Main Avenue, PO Box 5116, Norwalk, CT 06856-
5116. | No. 519 
  Copyright © 20 23 by Financial Accounting Founda tion. All rights reserved . 
Content copyrighted by Financial Accounting Foundation may not be 
reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without 
the prior written permission of the Financial Accounting Foundation. Financial 
Accounting Foundation claims no copyright in any portion hereof that 
constitutes a work of the United States Government. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An Amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification ® 
No. 2023-01 
March 2023 
Leases (Topic 842) 
 
Common Control Arrangements 
Accounting Standards Update 
Financial Accounting Standards Board 


 
  

Accounting Standards Update 2023-01 
Leases (Topic 842) 
Common Control Arrangements 
March 2023 
CONTENTS 
Page 
Numbers 
 
Summary ........................................................................................................... 1–4 
Amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification® ..................... 5–17 
Background Information and Basis for Conclusions ...................................... 18–30 
Amendments to the GAAP Taxonomy................................................................. 31 
 
  

 

1 
Summary 
Why Is the FASB Issuing This Accounting Standards 
Update (Update)? 
Since the issuance of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016 -02, Leases (Topic 
842), the Board has prioritized monitoring and assisting stakeholders wit h the 
implementation of Topic 842 through its Post -Implementation Review (PIR) 
process. PIR activities include, but are not limited to, responding to technical 
accounting inquiries and proactively seeking feedback on issues arising from 
applying Topic 842. The amendments in this Update respond to private company 
stakeholders’ concerns about applying Topic 842 to related party arrangements 
between entities under common control.  
What Are the Main Provisions, How Do They Differ from 
Current Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(GAAP), and Why Are They an Improvement? 
Issue 1: Terms and Conditions to Be Considered 
Topic 842 requires that entities determine whether a related party arrangement 
between entities under common contro l (hereinafter referred to as a common 
control arrangement) is a lease. If the arrangement is determined to be a lease, an 
entity must classify and account for the lease on the same basis as an arrangement 
with an unrelated party (on the basis of legally enforceable terms and conditions). 
That represents a change from the requirements of Topic 840, Leases, which 
required that an entity classify and account for an arrangement on the basis of 
economic substance when those terms and conditions were affected by the related 
party na ture of the arrangement . Private company stakeholders observed that 
determining the enforceable terms and conditions of a common control 
arrangement to apply Topic 842 often is difficult and costly. Specifically, private 
company stakeholders stated that de termining the  enforceable terms and 
conditions of those arrangements could  necessitate obtaining a formal legal 
opinion in certain cases, which could be challenging because of the common 
control nature of the arrangement (even for written arrangements). 
The amendments in this Update provide a practical expedient for private 
companies and not-for-profit entities that are not conduit bond obligors to use the 
written terms and conditions of a common control arrangement to determine: 
1. Whether a lease exists and, if so, 
2. The classification of and accounting for that lease. 

2 
The practical expedient may be applied on an arrangement-by-arrangement basis. 
If no written terms and conditions exist  (including in situations in which an entity 
does not document existing  unwritten terms and conditions in writing  upon 
transition to the practical expedient ), an entity is prohibited from applying the 
practical expedient and must evaluate the enforceable terms and conditions to 
apply Topic 842.   
The practical expedient is expected to reduce (1) the costs associated with 
implementing and applying Topic 842 to those arrangements  and (2) diversity in 
practice by entities within its scope when applying lease accounting requirements 
to common control arrangements. 
Issue 2: Accounting for Leasehold Improvements   
Topic 842 generally requires that leasehold improvements have an amortization 
period consistent with the shorter of the remaining lease term and the useful life of 
the improvements, which is an approach that is largely consistent with legacy 
guidance. Lessees recognize leasehold improvements when they are the 
accounting owner of those improvements. Private company stakeholders noted 
that amortizing leasehold improvements associated with arrangements between 
entities under common control determined to be leases (hereinafter referred to as 
common control leases) over a period shorter than the expected useful life of the 
leasehold improvements may result in financial reporting that does not faithfully 
represent the economics of those leasehold improvements, particularly in common 
control leases with short lease terms. Those stakeholders further noted that this 
accounting, depending on the salvage value assigned to the leasehold 
improvements, may fail to recognize the transfer  of value between the entities 
under common control when  the lessee no longer controls the use of the 
underlying asset. Additionally, the Board noted that multiple methods of accounting 
for those improvements exist, causing diversity in practice. 
The amendments in this Update require that leasehold improvements associated 
with common control leases be: 
1. Amortized by the lessee over the useful life of the leasehold 
improvements to the common control group (regardless of the lease term) 
as long as the lessee controls the use of the underlying asset (the leased 
asset) through a lease. However, if the lessor obtained the right to control 
the use of the  underlying asset through a lease with another entity not 
within the same common control group , the amortization period may not 
exceed the amortization period of the common control group. 
2. Accounted for as a transfer between entities under common control 
through an adjustment to equity (or net assets for not-for-profit entities) if, 
and when, the lessee no longer controls the use of the underlying asset.  
Additionally, those leasehold improvements are subject to the impairment 
guidance in Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment.  

3 
The amendments in this Update  improve current GAAP by clarifying the  
accounting for leasehold improvements associated with common control leases , 
thereby reducing diversity in practice . Additionally, the amendments provide 
investors and other allocators of capital with  financial information  that better 
reflects the economics of those transactions.   
Who Is Affected by the Amendments in This Update?  
Issue 1: Terms and Conditions to Be Considered 
The practical expedient is available to entities that are not: 
1. Public business entities 
2. Not-for-profit conduit bond obligors 
3. Employee benefit plans that file or furnish financial statements with or to 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  
Issue 2: Accounting for Leasehold Improvements  
The amendments in this Update affect all lessees that are a party to a lease 
between entities under common control in which the re are  leasehold 
improvements. The amendments apply to all entities ( that is, public business 
entities, private companies, not-for-profit entities, and employee benefit plans).    
When Will the Amendments Be Effective?  
The amendments in this Update for both Issue 1 and Issue 2 are effective for fiscal 
years beginning after December 15, 2023, including interim periods within those 
fiscal years. Ear ly adoption is permitted for both interim and annual financial 
statements that have not yet been made available for issuance. If an entity adopts 
the amendments in an interim period, it must adopt them as of the beginning of the 
fiscal year that includes that interim period.  
What Are the Transition Requirements? 
Issue 1: Terms and Conditions to Be Considered 
Entities adopting the practical expedient in this Update concurrently with adopting 
Topic 842 are required to  follow the same transition requirements used to apply 
Topic 842.  

4 
All other entities are required to apply the practical expedient in this Update either: 
1. Prospectively to arrangements that commence or are modified on or after 
the date that the entity first applies the practical expedient  
2. Retrospectively to the beginning of the period in which the entity first 
applied Topic 842 for arrangements that exist a t the date of adoption of 
the practical expedient . The practical expedient does not apply to 
common control arrangements no longer in place at the date of adoption 
of the amendments in this Update. 
Regardless of an entity ’s transition approach, the entity is permitted to document 
any existing unwritten terms and conditions of a  common control  arrangement 
before the date on which the entity ’s first interim (if applicable) or annual financial 
statements are available to be issued in accordance with the practical expedient 
in this Update. 
Issue 2: Accounting for Leasehold Improvements 
Entities adopting the amendments in this Update concurrently with adopting Topic 
842 may follow the same transition requirements used to apply Topic 842  or may 
use either of the prospective approaches described below to avoid retrospectively 
accounting for leasehold improvements.   
All other entities are required to apply the amendments in this Update using one 
of the following methods: 
1. Prospectively to all new leasehold impro vements recognized on or after 
the date that the entity first applies the amendments in this Update  
2. Prospectively to all new and existing leasehold improvements recognized 
on or after the date that the entity first applies the amendments  in this 
Update, with any remaining unamortized balance of existing leasehold 
improvements amortized over their remaining useful life to the common 
control group determined at that date 
3. Retrospectively to the beginning of the period in which the entity  first 
applied Topic 8 42, with any leasehold improvements that otherwise 
would not have been amortized or impaired recognized through a 
cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings 
(or net assets of a not -for-profit entity) at the beginning of the  earliest 
period presented in accordance with Topic 842. 

5 
Amendments to the  
FASB Accounting Standards Codification® 
Introduction 
1. The following table  provides a summary of the amendments to the 
Accounting Standards Codification  for applying Topic 842 to common control 
arrangements. The amendments are organized by issue. 
 
Issue Paragraphs 
Issue 1: Terms and Conditions to Be 
Considered 
3–6 
Issue 2: Accounting for Leasehold 
Improvements 
7–11 
2. The Accounting Standards Codification is amended as described in 
paragraphs 3–13. In some cases, to put the change in context, not only are the 
amended paragraphs shown but also the preceding and foll owing paragraphs. 
Terms from the Master Glossary are in bold type. Added text is underlined, and 
deleted text is struck out. 
Issue 1: Terms and Conditions to Be Considered 
3. The following amendments provide entities that are not  public business 
entities, not-for-profit bond obligors, or employee benefit plans that file or furnish 
financial statements with or to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission with 
a practical exped ient to use the written terms and conditions of a related party 
arrangement between entities under common control to determine: 
a. Whether a lease exists and, if so, 
b. The classification of and accounting for that lease. 
An entity electing that practical expedient is allowed to elect the practical expedient 
on an arrangement-by-arrangement basis.  
Amendments to Subtopic 842-10 
4. Add paragraphs 842 -10-15-3A through 15 -3C, with a link to transition 
paragraph 842-10-65-7, as follows: 

6 
Leases—Overall 
Scope and Scope Exceptions  
> Identifying a Lease  
842-10-15-2 At inception of a contract, an entity shall determine whether that 
contract is or contains a lease.  
 
842-10-15-3 A contract is or contains a lease if the contract conveys the right to 
control the use of identified property, plant, or equipment (an identified asset) for 
a period of time in exchange for consideration. A period of time may be described 
in terms of the amount of use of an identified asset (for example, the number of 
production units that an item of equipment will be used to produce).  
 
842-10-15-3A As a practical expedient, an entity that is not a public business 
entity; a not-for-profit entity  that has issued or is a conduit bond obligor for 
securities that are traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter 
market; or an employee benefit plan that files or furnishes financial statements with 
or to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission may use the written terms and 
conditions of a related party arrangement between entities under common control 
to determine whether that arrangement is or contains a lease. For purposes of 
determining whether a lease exists under this practica l expedient, an entity shall 
determine whether written terms and conditions convey the practical (as opposed 
to enforceable) right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration. If an entity determines that a lease exists, the entity 
shall classify and account for that lease on the basis of those written terms and 
conditions. An entity may elect th e practical expedient on an arrangement -by-
arrangement basis.  
 
842-10-15-3B If no written terms or conditions exist, an entity  shall not apply the 
practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-3A. Rather, the entity shall determine 
whether the related party arrangement between entities under common control is 
or contains a lease in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-3 and, if so, classify 
and account for that lease on the basis of its legally enforceable terms and 
conditions in accordance with paragraph 842-10-55-12. 
842-10-15-3C If after an entity has applied the practical expe dient in paragraph 
842-10-15-3A an arrangement is no longer between entities under common 
control, the entity shall determine whether a lease exists in accordance with 
paragraph 842-10-15-3.  
a. If the arrangement was previously determined to be a lease and 
continues to be a lease, the entity shall classify and account for the lease 
on the basis of the enforceable terms and conditions. If the enforceable 

7 
terms and conditions differ from the written terms and conditions 
previously used to apply paragraph 842 -10-15-3A, the entity shall apply 
the modification requirements in paragraphs 842-10-25-9 through 25-17 
using the enforceable terms and conditions. If the enforceable terms and 
conditions are the same as the written terms and conditions previously 
used to apply paragraph 842-10-15-3A, the modification requirements in 
those paragraphs are not applicable.  
b. If the arrangement was previously not determined to be  a lease and is 
determined to be a lease, the entity shall account for the arrangement as 
a new lease. 
c. If the arrangement was previously determined to be a lease and the lease 
ceases to exist: 
1. A lessee shall apply the  derecognition requirements for fully 
terminated leases in paragraph 842-20-40-1. 
2. A lessor with a lease previously classified as a sales-type lease or 
a direct financing lease shall apply the derecognition requirements 
for terminated leases in paragraph 842-30-40-2. 
3. A lessor with a lease previously classified as an operating lease 
shall derecognize any amounts that would not exist if the 
arrangement was not accounted for as a lease and account for the 
arrangement in acco rdance with other generally accepted 
accounting principles (GAAP).   
 
5. Amend paragraph 842-10-55-12, with a link to transition paragraph 842-10-
65-7, as follows: 
Implementation Guidance and Illustrations 
> Implementation Guidance 
. > Lease Classification 
. . > Lease of a Related Party 
842-10-55-12 Except for leases between entities under common control 
accounted for in accordance with the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-
3A, leases Leases between related parties should be classified in accordance with 
the lease classification criteria applicable to all oth er leases on the basis of  the 
legally enforceable terms and conditions of the lease. Additionally, except for 
leases between entities under common control accounted for in accordance with 
paragraph 842-10-15-3A In the separate financial statements of the related parties, 
the classification and accounting for the leases should be the same as for leases 
between unrelated parties in the separate financial statements of the related 
parties. 

8 
6. Amend paragraph 842 -10-65-1 and its related heading and add paragraph 
842-10-65-7 and its related heading as follows: 
Transition and Open Effective Date Information 
> Transition Related to Accounting Standards Updates No. 2016-02, Leases 
(Topic 842), No. 2018-01, Leases (Topic 842): Land Easement Practical 
Expedient for Transition to Topic 842, No. 2018-10, Codification 
Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): 
Targeted Improvements, No. 2018-20, Leases (Topic 842): Narrow-Scope 
Improvements for Lessors, No. 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842): Codification 
Improvements, No. 2019-10, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 
326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), Leases (Topic 842): Effective 
Dates, No. 2020-05, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) 
and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates for Certain Entities, No. 2021-
05, Leases (Topic 842): Lessors—Certain Leases with Variable Lease 
Payments, and No. 2021-09, Leases (Topic 842): Discount Rate for Lessees 
That Are Not Public Business Entities, and No. 2023-01, Leases (Topic 842): 
Common Control Arrangements 
842-10-65-1 The following represents the transition and effective date information 
related to Accounting Standards Updates No. 2016 -02, Leases (Topic 842) , No. 
2018-01, Leases (Topic 842): Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition 
to Topic 842, No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases,  No. 
2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements , No. 2018 -20, Leases 
(Topic 842): Narrow -Scope I mprovements for Lessors , No. 2019 -01, Leases 
(Topic 842): Codification Improvements , No. 2019 -10, Financial Instruments —
Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases 
(Topic 842): Effective Dates , No. 2020 -05, Revenue from Contr acts with 
Customers (Topic 606) and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates for Certain 
Entities, No. 2021-05, Leases (Topic 842): Lessors—Certain Leases with Variable 
Lease Payments , and No. 2021 -09, Leases (Topic 842): Discount Rate for 
Lessees That Are Not Public Business Entities, and No. 2023-01, Leases (Topic 
842): Common Control Arrangements: [Note: See paragraph 842-10-S65-1 for an 
SEC Staff Announcement on transition related to Update 2016-02.] 
[The remainder of this paragraph is not shown here because it is 
unchanged.]  
> Transition Related to Accounting Standards Update No. 2023-01, Leases 
(Topic 842): Common Control Arrangements 
  

9 
842-10-65-7 The following represents the transition and effective date information 
related to the practical expedient in Accounting Standards Update No. 202 3-01, 
Leases (Topic 842): Common Control Arrangements: 
a. The pending content that links to this paragraph shall be effective for 
fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning 
after December 15, 2023. Early adoption is permitted in any annual or 
interim period for which financial statements have not yet been made 
available for issuance. If an entity adopts the pending content that links 
to this paragraph in an interim period, it shall adopt that pending content 
as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. 
b. An entity that adopts the pending content that links to this paragraph 
concurrently with adopting the pending content that links to paragraph 
842-10-65-1 shall apply the pending content that links to this paragraph 
using the same transition method elected for the pending content that 
links to paragraph 842-10-65-1. 
c. An entity that adopted the pending content that links to paragraph 842 -
10-65-1 before adopting the pending content that links to this paragraph 
shall apply the pending content that links to this paragraph using either of 
the following two methods: 
1. Prospectively to arrangements that commence or are modified on or 
after the date that the entity first applies the pending content that links 
to this paragraph.  
2. Retrospectively to the beginning of the period in which the pending 
content that links to paragraph 842 -10-65-1 was first applied. The 
pending content that links to this paragraph  shall not be applicable 
for arrangements no longer in place at the date of adoption. Under 
this transition method: 
i. If an arrangement previously considered to be a lease continues 
to be a lease after applying the pending content that links to this 
paragraph, an entity shall apply the requirements in paragraphs 
842-10-25-9 through 25-17 to any changes in the lease resulting 
from application of the practical expedient in the pending content 
that links to this paragraph. Any amounts that otherwise would 
have been recognized in earnings shall be recognize d as a 
cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings  (or 
net assets of a not -for-profit entity)  at the beginning of the 
earliest period presented in accordance with the pending 
content that links to paragraph 842-10-65-1. 
ii. If an arrangement previously not considered a lease becomes a 
lease after applying the pending content that links to this 
paragraph, an entity shall account for the arrangement as a new 
lease.  
  

10 
d. An entity may document any existing unwritten terms and conditions of 
an arrangement between entities under common control before the date 
on which the entity ’s first  interim (if applicable) or annual financial 
statements are available to be issued  in accordance with the pending 
content that links to this paragraph.  
e. An entity within th e scope of ( c) shall provide the applicable transition 
disclosures required by Topic 250 on accounting changes and error 
corrections, except for the requirements in paragraphs 250-10-50-1(b)(2) 
and 250-10-50-3. An entity that elects the transition method in (c)(2) shall 
provide the transition disclosures in paragraph 250 -10-50-1(b)(3) as of 
the beginning of the earliest period presented but not before the date on 
which the pending content that links to paragraph 842 -10-65-1 was 
adopted. 
f. An entity that elect s the practical expedient(s) in paragraph 842 -10-65-
1(f) or (g) is not required to apply either of those practical expedients to 
common control arrangements for which the pending content that links to 
this paragraph is being applied. 
Issue 2: Accounting for Leasehold Improvements  
7. The following amendments require that all entities with leases between 
entities under common control account for the associated leasehold improvements 
by: 
a. Amortizing leasehold improvements over the useful life of the leasehold 
improvements to the common control group (regardless of the lease term) 
as long as the lessee controls the use of the underlying asset  through a 
lease. If the lessor obtained the right to control the underlying asset 
through a lease with another entity not within the same common control 
group, the amortization period shall not exceed the amortization period of 
the common control group. 
b. Accounting for any remaining leasehold improvements as a transfer 
between entities under common control through an adjustment to equity 
(net assets for not -for-profit entities) if, and when, the lessee no longer 
controls the use of the underlying asset.  
Additionally, an entity with leasehold improvements associated with common 
control leases is required to apply the impairment requirements in Topic 360, 
Property, Plant, and Equipment.  
Amendments to Subtopic 842-10 
8. Amend paragraph 842 -10-30-6, with a li nk to transition paragraph 842-10-
65-8, as follows: 

11 
Leases—Overall 
Initial Measurement 
> Initial Measurement of the Lease Payments 
842-10-30-6 Lease payments do not include any of the following:  
a. Variable lease payments other than those in paragraph 842-10-30-5(b)  
b. Any guarantee by the lessee of the lessor’s debt 
c. Amounts allocated to nonlease components in accordance with 
paragraphs 842-10-15-33 through 15-42 15-42. 
d. Leasehold improvements recognized by a lessee and accounted for in 
accordance with paragraph 842-20-35-12A. 
Amendments to Subtopic 842-20 
9. Amend paragraph 842 -20-35-12 and a dd paragraphs 842-20-35-12A 
through 35-12C, with a link to transition paragraph 842-10-65-8, as follows: 
Leases—Lessee 
Subsequent Measurement 
> Amortization of Leasehold Improvements 
842-20-35-12 Leasehold improvements, other than those accounted for in 
accordance with paragraph 842-20-35-12A, shall be amortized over the shorter of 
the useful life of those leasehold improvements and the remaining  lease term, 
unless the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the lessee or the 
lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option to purchase the underlying  
asset, in which case the lessee shall amortize the leasehold improvements to the 
end of their useful life. 
 
842-20-35-12A Leasehold improvements associated with a lease between entities 
under common control shall be: 
a. Amortized over the useful life  of those improvements to the common 
control group as long as the lessee controls  the use of the underlying 
asset through a lease. If the lessor obtained the right to control the use 
of the underlying asset through a lease with another entity not within the 
same common control group, the amortization period shall not exceed the 
amortization period  of the common control group determined in 
accordance with paragraph 842-20-35-12. 

12 
b. Accounted for as a transfer between entities under common control  
through an adjustment to equity ( net assets for a not-for-profit entity) 
when the lessee no longer controls the use of the underlying asset.  
 
842-20-35-12B An entity with l easehold improvements accounted for in 
accordance with paragraph 842 -20-35-12A shall apply the impairment 
requirements in paragraph 360-10-40-4, considering the useful life to the common 
control group.  
 
842-20-35-12C If after the commencement date the lessee and lessor become 
within the same common control group or are no longer within the same common 
control group, any change in the required amortization period for leasehold 
improvements shall be accounted for prospectively as a change in accounti ng 
estimate in accordance with paragraph 250-10-45-17.  
 
10. Add paragraph 842-20-50-7A, with a link to transition paragraph 842-10-65-
8, as follows: 
Disclosure 
842-20-50-7 A lessee shall disclose lease transactions between related parties in 
accordance with paragraphs 850-10-50-1 through 50-6. 
 
842-20-50-7A When the useful life of leasehold improvements to the common 
control group determined in accordance with  paragraph 842-20-35-12A exceeds 
the related lease term, a lessee shall disclose the following information: 
a. The unamortized balance of the leasehold improvements at the balance 
sheet date 
b. The remaining useful life of the leasehold improvements to the common 
control group 
c. The remaining lease term.  
 
11. Add paragraph 842-10-65-8 and its related heading as follows:  
Leases—Overall 
Transition and Open Effective Date Information 
> Transition Related to Accounting Standards Update No. 2023-01, Leases 
(Topic 842): Common Control Arrangements 
  

13 
842-10-65-8 The following represents the transition and effective date information 
related to the accounting for leasehold improvements associated with leases 
between entities under common control in Accounting Standards Update No. 
2023-01, Leases (Topic 842): Common Control Arrangements: 
a. The pending content that links to this paragraph shall be effective for 
fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning 
after December 15, 2023. Early adoption is permitted in any annual or 
interim period  for which financial st atements have not yet been made 
available for issuance. If an entity adopts the pending content that links 
to this paragraph in an interim period, it shall adopt that pending content 
as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. 
b. An entity that adopts the pending content that links to this paragraph 
concurrently with adopting the pending content that links to paragraph 
842-10-65-1 may apply the pending content that links to this paragraph 
using the same transition method elected f or the pending content that 
links to paragraph 842 -10-65-1 or may apply the pending content that 
links to this paragraph using either of the prospective methods specified 
in (c)(1) and (c)(2) below.  
c. An entity that adopted the pending content that links to paragraph 842 -
10-65-1 before adopting the pending content that links to this paragraph 
shall apply the pending content that links to this paragraph using one of 
the following methods: 
1. Prospectively to all new leasehold improvements recognized  on or 
after the date that the entity first applies the pending content that links 
to this paragraph.  
2. Prospectively to all new and existing leasehold improvements 
recognized on or after the date that the entity first applies the pending 
content that links to this paragraph. An entity that elects this transition 
approach shall amortize the remaining balance  of leasehold 
improvements existing at the date of adoption of the pending content 
that links to this paragraph over the remaining useful life of those 
improvements to the common control group determined at that date. 
3. Retrospectively to the beginning of th e period in which the pending 
content that links to paragraph 842 -10-65-1 was first applied. Any 
leasehold improvements previously amortized or impaired that 
otherwise would not have been amortized or impaired had the 
pending content that links to this paragraph been applicable shall be 
recognized through a cumulative -effect adjustment to the opening 
balance of retained earnings (or net assets of a not-for-profit entity) 
at the beginning of the earliest period presented in accordance with 
the pending content that links to paragraph 842-10-65-1. 
d. An entity within the scope of ( c) shall provide the applicable transition 
disclosures required by Topic 250 on accounting changes and error 
corrections, except for the requirements in paragraphs 250-10-50-1(b)(2) 
and 250-10-50-3. An entity that elects the transition method in (c)(3) shall 

14 
provide the transition disclosures in paragraph 250 -10-50-1(b)(3) as of 
the beginning of the earliest period presented but not before the date on 
which the pending content that links to paragraph 842 -10-65-1 was 
adopted.  
Amendments to Status Sections 
12. Amend paragraph 842-10-00-1, by adding the following items to the table, as 
follows:  
842-10-00-1 The following table identifies the changes made to this Subtopic. 
 
Paragraph Action 
Accounting 
Standards 
Update Date 
842-10-15-3A 
through 15-3C Added 2023-01 3/27/2023 
842-10-30-6 Amended 2023-01 3/27/2023 
842-10-55-12 Amended 2023-01 3/27/2023 
842-10-65-1 Amended 2023-01 3/27/2023 
842-10-65-7 Added 2023-01 3/27/2023 
842-10-65-8 Added 2023-01 3/27/2023 
13. Amend paragraph 842-20-00-1, by adding the following items to the table,  as 
follows:  
842-20-00-1 The following table identifies the changes made to this Subtopic. 
 
Paragraph Action 
Accounting 
Standards 
Update Date 
842-20-35-12 Amended 2023-01 3/27/2023 
842-20-35-12A 
through 35-12C Added 2023-01 3/27/2023 
842-20-50-7A Added 2023-01 3/27/2023 
 
The amendments in this Update were adopted by affirmative vote of four members 
of the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Ms. Botosan and Messrs. Buesser 
and Cannon dissented.  
 
  

15 
Ms. Botosan and Mr. Cannon’s dissent is as follows: 
Ms. Botosan and Mr. Cannon support the relief afforded to private companies and 
certain not-for-profit entities by the practical expedient to rely on the written terms 
and conditions of a common control arrangement without having to determine 
whether those terms and conditio ns are enforceable (Issue 1). They believe that 
this simple clarification will mitigate the cost of having to obtain an unnecessary 
legal opinion and will serve to align practice more closely with the Board’s original 
intent.  
However, Ms. Botosan and Mr. Cannon do not support exempting all entities ’ 
common control lease arrangements from Topic 842 ’s requirement to amortize 
leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term and the 
useful life of the improvement s (Issue 2). The amendments will require a related 
party lessee under a common control arrangement to measure its right -of-use 
asset and lease liability over the lease term but amortize any related leasehold 
improvements over the useful life of those impro vements to the common control 
group, even in the likely event that this period exceeds the lease term used to 
measure the underlying lease asset and lease liability. They object to this outcome 
on both conceptual and pragmatic grounds.  
Ms. Botosan and Mr. Cannon believe that beyond the recognized lease term, a 
leasehold improvement does not meet the definition of an asset. FASB Concepts 
Statement No. 8,  Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting,  Chapter 4, 
Elements of Financial Statements, defines an asset as “a present right of an entity 
to an economic benefit.” Beyond the recognized lease term, no present right to the 
economic benefit from use of the underlying leased asset exists, and, 
correspondingly, no present right to the economic benefit from use  of any 
associated leasehold improvements exists.  
Ms. Botosan and Mr. Cannon believe that this amendment will yield misleading 
financial reporting information because it will inflate the balance sheet and misstate 
solvency ratios by recognizing a leasehold improvement asset but not recognizing 
the underlying lease asset or liability. They believe that this reporting does not 
provide a faithful representation of the underlying economic activity, since 
generally it is uneconomic for an entity to fund leaseho ld improvements with a 
longer duration than the lease term . Therefore, they do not agree that the 
amendments for Issue 2 result in financial information that better reflects the 
economics of leasehold improvements. In addition, they are concerned that the 
favorable accounting treatment afforded to  leasehold improvements by this 
exemption will incentivize short-term common control lease arrangements, thereby 
compounding the harm.  
Ms. Botosan and Mr. Cannon also are concerned that the exemption applies to 
public entities. Those entities adopted Topic 842 for fiscal years beginning after 
December 15, 2018. It is their understanding that the FASB has received no 
concerns about the application of Topic 842 to common control lease 
arrangements from public entity preparers, practitioners, or financial statement 

16 
users. Accordingly, they question the existence of a pervasive problem for those 
entities.  
Furthermore, neither the comment letters nor the staff ’s research on Issue 2 
included input from public entities th at will be affected by the amendments or the 
users of those entities ’ financial statements. Accordingly, Ms. Botosan  and Mr. 
Cannon concluded that they do not have sufficient stakeholder input to make an 
informed decision on the issue or to make an informed assessment about whether 
the expected benefits of the amendments would justify the perceived costs for 
those entities. 
Topic 842 is in the final stage of implementation by entities required to adopt the 
standard for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021. Ms. Botosan and Mr. 
Cannon believe that addressing Issue 1 alone would have delivered a timely 
response to the primary concern raised by those entities. In their opinion, 
incorporating Issue 2 in the amendments is unnecessary and detrimental to t he 
decision usefulness of the resulting financial information.  
Mr. Buesser’s dissent is as follows: 
Broadly, Mr. Buesser  does not believe  that Topic 842 provides investors with 
information that is decision useful, primarily because he believes that the lease 
liability recognized is noncomparable across companies.  
To illustrate this concern, Mr. Buesser analyzed the balance sheets and lease 
disclosures for 25 of the largest U.S. public retail companies for fiscal years 
beginning in 2021. First, Mr. Buesser found that the range of lease terms for those 
retailers was 5 years to 22 years, with a median of 9 years. Second, Mr. Buesser 
found that the range of operating lease liability multiples was 2.7x to 8.8x, with a 
median of 4.6x. An operating lease liability multiple equals an entity ’s operating 
lease liability divided by its total operating lease cost (including variable and short-
term lease cost s). Mr. Buesser further found that the correlation coefficient 
between the lease term and the lease liability multiple is 0.82. Mr. Buesser believes 
that the wide disparity in operating lease liability multiples across entities 
diminishes the decision usef ulness of the lease liability information provided in 
financial statements. 
Notwithstanding his opposition to Topic 842, Mr. Buesser believes that those 
supporting Topic 842 agree that the lease liability and right-of-use asset should be 
measured using the accounting lease term.   
Mr. Buesser believes that the amendments for Issue 2 undercut the importance of 
the accounting lease term used for applying Topic 842 by allowing a commonly 
controlled lessee to amortize leasehold improvements associated with the right-of-
use asset over the useful life to the common control group, which will probably be 
longer than the accounting lease term used for measuring the lease liability. 
  

17 
Mr. Buesser notes that private company stakeholders provided feedback indicating 
that amortizing leasehold improvements associated with common control leases 
over a period shorter than the life of the improvements may result in financial 
reporting that does not faithfully represent the economics of those arrangements, 
particularly for leases with short lease terms. Mr. Buesser believes that if the Topic 
842 model for amortizing leasehold improvements associated with common 
control leases does not faithfully represent the economics of those transactions, 
then measuring the related right -of-use asset and lease liability for those leases 
using the accounting lease term also does not represent the economics of the 
transactions.  
Additionally, Mr. Buesser is concerned that the amendments for Issue 2 could 
incentivize certain preparer stakeholder s to request that the Board extend the 
accounting for leasehold improvements associated with common control leases to 
all leases (that is, other related party leases and leases between unrelated parties). 
Mr. Buesser believes that the accounting for leaseh old improvements should be 
consistent, regardless of whether the lease is between entities under common 
control or is not.  
Finally, Mr. Buesser believes that the amendments for Issue 2 weaken Topic 842, 
which Mr. Buesser views as an already problematic standard. 
 
Members of the Financial Accounting Standards Board: 
 
Richard R. Jones, Chair 
James L. Kroeker, Vice Chairman 
Christine A. Botosan 
Gary R. Buesser 
Frederick L. Cannon 
Susan M. Cosper 
Marsha L. Hunt 
 

18 
Background Information and Basis for 
Conclusions 
Introduction 
BC1. The following summarizes the Board ’s considerations in reaching the 
conclusions in this Update. It includes reasons for accepting certain approaches 
and rejecting others. Individual Board members gave greater weight to some 
factors than to others. 
Background Information 
BC2. On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), to increase transparency and comparability among 
organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet 
and disclosing key information about leasing transactions. 
BC3. As part of the Board ’s post-implementation review of Topic 842, the Board 
and staff continue to assist stakeholders by responding to technical accounting 
inquiries and proactively seeking feedback on potential implementation issues that 
have arisen as entities began implementing Topic 842. Since the issuance of 
Update 2016-02, the Board has issued seven Updates to assist stakeholders with 
implementation issues and two Updates  deferring the effective date for private 
companies and certain not-for-profit organizations. The staff continues to perform 
outreach with stakeholders to determine whether the standard is accomplishing its 
stated objective and evaluate the benefits  being provided to investors and other 
allocators of capital and continuing costs related to Topic 842.  
BC4. The amendments in this Update respond to the following issues related to 
applying Topic 842 to related party arrangements between entities under common 
control (hereinafter referred to as common control arrangements)  brought to the 
Board’s attention primarily through interactions with private company stakeholders: 
a. The terms and conditions to be considered for: 
i. Determining whether a lease exists and, if so,  
ii. The classification of and accounting for that lease (Issue 1). 
b. Accounting for leasehold improvements (Issue 2). 
 
BC5. The Board issued proposed Accounting Standards Update, Leases (Topic 
842): Common Control Arrangements, on November 30, 2022, and received 29 
comment letters in response to the amendments in that proposed Update. The 
Board considered respondents ’ comments in reaching the conclusions in this 
Update, as discussed further below.   

19 
Benefits and Costs 
BC6. The objective of financial reporting is to provide  information that is useful 
to present and potential investors, creditors, donors, and other capital market 
participants in making rational investment, credit, and similar resource allocation 
decisions. However, the benefits of providing information for th at purpose should 
justify the related costs. Present and potential investors, creditors, donors, and 
other users of financial information benefit from improvements in financial 
reporting, while the costs to implement new guidance are borne primarily by 
present investors. The Board ’s assessment of the costs and benefits of issuing 
new guidance is unavoidably more qualitative than quantitative because there is 
no method to objectively measure the costs to implement new guidance or to 
quantify the value of improved information in financial statements. 
BC7. For Issue 1, the Board concluded that providing the practical expedient in 
this Update to entities that are not (a) public business entities, (b) not -for-profit 
bond obligors, or (c) employee benefit plans that file or furnish financial statements 
with or to the SEC will reduce the cost of implementation and ongoing application 
of Topic 842 for those entities while reducing diversity in practice when applying 
lease accounting requirements to common control arrangements. Additionally, the 
Board expects that using the written terms and conditions of a common control 
arrangement will often result in financial reporting for those arrangements that is 
consistent with financial reporting that uses enforceable terms and conditions , 
thereby not compr omising the decision  usefulness of information provided to 
investors and other allocators of capital.      
BC8. For Issue 2, the Board concluded that the amendments  in this Update 
improve current GAAP by clarifying the accounting for leasehold improvements 
associated with common control leases , thereby reducing diversity in practice . 
Additionally, the Board decided that the amendments result in financial information 
for investors and other allocators of capital that better reflects the economics of 
those transactions. The Board does not anticipate that entities will incur significant 
costs as a result of applying the amendments in this Update.   
Basis for Conclusions 
Common Control 
BC9. The amendments in this Update address issues with applying Topic 842 
to common control arrangements. The Board decided not to include other related 
party arrangements within the scope of the amendments primarily because 
stakeholders’ feedback, including the feedback received in comment letters,  
indicated that issues with applying Topic 842 were most frequently associated with 
common control arrangements ( see paragraphs BC1 3 and BC14). Additionally, 

20 
that feedback indicated that common control arrangements in particular pose 
unique challenges.  
BC10. Some comment letter respondents requested that the Board define 
common control or provide additional guidance for determining whether entities 
are under c ommon control.  Consistent with deliberations in previous projects 
addressing common control  arrangements, the Board decided not to define 
common control in this Update. The Board noted that common control exists in 
other areas of GAAP (for example, to determine the measurement basis for assets 
transferred between entities under common control  under Topic 805, Business 
Combinations). For purposes of applying the amendments in this Update, the 
Board believes that it would be appropriate for entities to  reference, among other 
things, the SEC staff ’s observations 1 documented in EITF Issue No. 02 -5, 
“Definition of ‘Common Control ’ in Relation to FASB Statement No. 141, ” to 
determine common control.  
BC11. Consistent with its observations in paragraph BC19 of Accounting 
Standards Update No. 2018 -17, Consolidation (Topic 810): Targeted 
Improvements to Related Party Guidance for Variable Interest Entities, the Board 
continues to believe that the term common control should be broader for private 
companies and most not -for-profit entities than what the SEC staff observed in 
Issue 02-5. For example, an entity owned by a grandparent and an entity owned 
by a grandchild could, on the basis of facts and circumstances, be conside red 
entities under common control for the purposes of applying the amendments in this 
Update. 
 
 
 
1  . . . the SEC staff has indicated that common control exists between (or among) separate 
entities only in the following situations:  
a. An individual or enterprise holds more than 50 percent of the voting ownership 
interest of each entity. 
b. Immediate family members hold more than 50 percent of the voting ownership 
interest of each entity (with no evidence that those family members will vote their 
shares in any way other than in concert). 
(1) Immediate family members include a married couple and their children, but 
not the married couple’s grandchildren.  
(2) Entities might be owned in varying combinations among living s iblings and 
their children. Those situations would require careful consideration regarding 
the substance of the ownership and voting relationships.  
c. A group of shareholders holds more than 50 percent of the voting ownership interest 
of each entity, and con temporaneous written evidence of an agreement to vote a 
majority of the entities’ shares in concert exists. [paragraph 3 of Issue 02-5] 

21 
Issue 1: Terms and Conditions to Be Considered 
BC12. Topic 842 requires that entities determine whether a related party 
arrangement, including one between entities under common control, is a lease on 
the basis of the legally enforceable terms and conditions of the arrangement. That 
requirement is consistent with the requirements for an arrangement between 
unrelated parties. The classification an d accounting under Topic 842 for all 
leases—both leases between related parties and leases between unrelated 
parties—also are based on the enforceable terms and conditions.  Under Topic 
840, if those terms and conditions were affected by the related party nature of the 
arrangement, an entity was required to classify and account for th at arrangement 
on the basis of its economic substance as opposed to its legal form.  
BC13. Many private company stakeholders state d that determining the 
enforceable terms and conditions in common control arrangements often presents 
unique challenges, even when the terms and conditions are written. Moreover, 
those stakeholders noted that a common owner or owners typically can amend the 
terms and conditions of an arrangement at any time.  Similarly, a common owner 
or owners typically can choose not to enforce the terms and conditions of an 
arrangement. In other words, the arrangements are generally controlled entirely by 
one party or control group and, thus, pose unique issues when conside ring 
enforceability.  
BC14. Private company stakeholders consistently indicated that common control 
arrangements often are unwritten or lack sufficient detail (for  example, the 
agreements may not explicitly specify whether lessee -controlled renewal options 
exist). Additionally, those stakeholders stated that the terms and conditions of the 
arrangements often are not negotiated at arm ’s length and not aligned with other 
related transactions or agreements. In those cases, private company stakeholders 
were concerned that determin ing the enforceable terms and conditions could 
necessitate obtaining a formal legal opinion, which is challenging and costly 
because of the common control nature of the arrangement (even for written 
arrangements).  
BC15. The Board acknowledged that the related party requirements in Topic 842 
were intended to address stakeholders ’ concerns about the complexities and 
diversity in practice associated with applying the economic substance  
requirements in Topic 840. Notwithstanding, the Board co ncluded on the basis of 
feedback from stakeholders and additional analysis that determining whether 
terms and conditions of arrangements between entities under common control are 
enforceable may be overly challenging when applying Topic 842, particularly i n 
situations in which those terms and conditions are unwritten. Furthermore, the 
Board learned through outreach that in situations in which an entity identifies oral 
or implicit terms and conditions for purposes of applying Topic 842, practitioners 
often r equire that those terms and conditions be written to satisfy audit 
requirements.  

22 
BC16. To respond to stakeholders’ concerns, the Board provided a practical 
expedient to entities that are not (a) public business entities, (b) not-for-profit bond 
obligors, or (c) employee benefit plans that file or furnish financial statements with 
or to the SEC. An entity electing the practical expedient will use the written terms 
and conditions of a common control arrangement to  determine whether a lease 
exists and, if so, to classify and account for that lease. An entity is not required to 
determine whether written terms and conditions are enforceable when applying the 
practical expedient and may apply the practical expedient on an arrangement-by-
arrangement basis. If no written terms and conditions exist, the Board decided that 
an entity cannot apply the practical expedient and must use enforceable rights and 
obligations to apply Topic 842, consistent with the requirements for arrangements 
between related parties not under common control. Additionally, the Board 
observed that, similar to legacy requirements and practice, if an entity determines 
that an arrangement is not a lease, the entity should apply other applicable GAAP 
to account for both the arrangement and any impr ovements made by a customer 
to a supplier’s asset.   
BC17. The Board noted that entities that have common control arrangements are 
subject to Topic 850, Related Party Disclosures. The disclosures required by Topic 
850 are intended to provide investors and other allocators of capital with sufficient 
information to analyze those arrangements. Those disclosure requirements were 
developed to address the fact that arrangements between related parties often are 
not consummated at arm ’s length and, therefore, may not re flect the economic 
substance of those arrangements. The Board concluded that applying the practical 
expedient, coupled with the Topic 850 disclosure requirements , should provide 
investors and allocators of capital with sufficient information to analyze an entity’s 
common control arrangements. 
BC18. The Board concluded that the option to use written terms and conditions 
for common control arrangements instead of the enforceable terms and conditions 
is a practical expedient. The Private Company Decision -Making Framework: A 
Guide for Evaluating Financial A ccounting and Reporting for Private Companies,  
describes a practical expedient as “a more cost -effective way of achieving the 
same or a similar accounting or reporting objective.” If the information provided by 
existing GAAP is deemed relevant to the users  of private company financial 
statements, then a practical expedient should be used to lower the cost and 
complexity of applying the guidance. Because the Board expects that applying 
Topic 842 to common control arrangements on the basis of written terms an d 
conditions is generally consistent with public business entity practice, it concluded 
that a practical expedient was warranted. 
BC19. More than a majority of comment letter respondents supported the 
practical expedient. Many of those respondents stated that the practical expedient 
(a) is operable and (b) will not compromise the decision usefulness of financial 
information provided to investors. 

23 
BC20. The Board considered whether the practical expedient should be available 
for all entities but decided to limit the practical expedient to entities that are not (a) 
public business entities, (b) not -for-profit bond obligors, or (c) employee benefit 
plans that file or furnish financial statements with or to the SEC. The Board 
reasoned that the entities in (a) through (c) have fully adopted Topic 842 and have 
raised no significant concerns since the issuance of Update 2016 -02 in February 
2016 about applying related party requirements in Topic 842 to common control 
arrangements. Moreover, the Board noted that feedback indicate d that public 
business entities are generally concluding that the written terms and conditions of 
a common control arrangement are the legally enforceable terms and conditions 
in accordance with paragraph 842 -10-55-12. Therefore, the Board expects that 
using written terms and conditions in accordance with the practical expedient will 
generally be consistent with the accounting for similar arrangements by public 
business entities.  
BC21. Some respondents broadly supporting the practical expedient 
recommended that the Board describe the specific terms and conditions that must 
be included in the written arrangement to apply the practical expedient. The Board 
considered that feedback but determined that providing additional guidance was 
unnecessary given the specificity of the existing requirements in Topic 842 for (a) 
determining whether a lease exists and, if so, (b) classifying and accounting for 
that lease. The Board further observed that applying the practical expedient does 
not eliminate the need for an entity to apply relevant guidance in Topic 842 to 
account for the lease. For example, an entity is still required to determine whether 
an arrangement contains lease and nonlease components. 
BC22. Other respondents requested clarification on the form required for 
documenting the written terms of an agreement to apply the practical expedient. 
The Board observed that entities have latitude to use reasonable judgment when 
deciding how the terms and conditions of an arrangement are conveyed in writing 
and, therefore, did not prescribe a specific form or approach.   
BC23. The Board decided that the practical expedient may be applied on an 
arrangement-by-arrangement basis, primarily because it expects that entities will 
apply Topic 842 to co mmon control arrangements on the basis of written terms 
and conditions. Notwithstanding, the Board reasoned that if entities wish to identify 
and account for enforceable unwritten terms and conditions for certain 
arrangements and not elect the practical ex pedient, they should be allowed to do 
so. Almost all comment letter respondents supported allowing entities to apply the 
practical expedient on an arrangement-by-arrangement basis.  
Issue 2: Accounting for Leasehold Improvements  
BC24. Leasehold improvements, although not defined in the Master Glossary, 
generally constitute improvements made by a lessee to the underlying asset (the 
leased asset) for which the lessee is determined to be the  accounting owner. In 

24 
addition, those improvements are reco gnized as leasehold improvements on a 
lessee’s balance sheet only when a n arrangement is determined to be a lease 
(under either Topic 842 or Topic 840). Topic 842 generally requires that leasehold 
improvements have an amortization period consistent with  the shorter of the 
remaining lease term and the useful life of the improvements. That requirement is 
largely consistent with legacy guidance. Private company stakeholders stated that 
it is not uncommon for private company common control leases to have short lease 
terms (for example, one year), even in situations in which the commonly controlled 
lessee makes significant leasehold improvements with an estimated useful life that 
far exceeds the lease term. Those stakeholders  were concerned that amortizing 
leasehold improvements over a period shorter than that estimated useful life of the 
improvements may result in financial reporting that does not faithfully represent the 
economics or the common control nature of those improvements because: 
a. The lessee will contin ue to control the use of the leased asset after the 
initial lease term either by extending the existing lease or entering into a 
new lease. Unlike transactions involving entities that are not under 
common control, the decision for that continued use often is controlled by 
a single party in the control group.  
b. The leasehold improvements will benefit another party within the common 
control group after the lessee ceases using the leased asset.  
BC25. The Board observed that multiple methods of accounting for leasehold 
improvements in leases with entities under common control are acceptable under 
current GAAP. Those methods include, but are not limited to: 
a. Recognizing the improvements as leasehold improvements  on the 
balance sheet and fully amortizing those improvements over the shorter 
of the lease term and useful life of the leasehold improvements 
b. Recognizing the improvements as leasehold improvements  on the 
balance sheet and amortizing those improvements over the lease term to 
an estimated salvage value, with the unamortized balance accounted for 
as a dividend to the common owner or owners at the end of the lease 
term 
c. Recognizing the improvements as leasehold improvements on the 
balance sheet and amortiz ing those improvements over the leas e term 
with a portion of the leasehold improvements recognized as a lease 
payment.  
BC26. Comment letter respondents had differing views about the extent of 
diversity in practice for leasehold improvements in common control leases. Many 
respondents to the proposed Update stated that the amendments would clarify the 
accounting for those improvements and reduce diversity  or the potential for 
diversity in practice. Other comment letter respondents stated that they have not 
observed diversity in practice among principally public entities that have adopted 
Topic 842. 

25 
BC27. The Board noted that leasehold improvements associated with common 
control leases are economically different from those associated with third-party and 
other related-party leases. The Board observed  that leasehold improvements 
associated with common control leases generally are made at the direction of a 
common owner or owners. The Board further observed that in common control 
leases, those improvements are expected to benefit all common control part ies 
through (a) the lessee’s use of those improvements or (b) a transfer to the common 
control lessor or another entity within the common control group  with the leased 
asset. The Board noted that this is not the case for leasehold improvements 
associated with leases between entities not under common control. Outreach and 
feedback from respondents to the proposed Update  supported the Board’s 
observations about the economics of leasehold improvements associated with 
common control leases.  
BC28. To clarify the accounting for leasehold improvements associated with 
common control leases , better reflect the economics of those transactions, and 
reduce diversity in practice , the Board de cided to require  that those leasehold 
improvements be: 
a. Amortized by the lessee over the useful life of the leasehold 
improvements to the common control group (regardless of the lease term) 
as long as the lessee controls the use of the underlying asset thro ugh a 
lease. If the lessor obtained the right to control the  underlying asset 
through a lease with another entity not within the same common control 
group, the amortization period may not exceed the amortization period of 
the common control group. 
b. Accounted as a transfer between entities under common control through 
an adjustment to equity (or net assets for not -for-profit entities) if, and 
when, the lessee no longer controls the right to use the underlying asset.  
BC29. The Board noted that common control leases are not prevalent for public 
companies and, therefore, it did not expect to receive formal feedback on Issue 2 
from that stakeholder group . Furthermore, for the more limited set of public 
companies that engage in common control leases , the Board expects that 
leasehold improvements  associated with  those leases w ill not  be a significant 
issue. Notwithstanding the limited expected effect for the vast majority of public 
companies, the Board received feedback from  (a) auditors (including th ose that 
audit the majority of public companies), (b) professional societies that include 
public company members , and (c) regulators of public companies and obtained 
sufficient information to conclude that additional outreach was unnecessary. While 
the effect of the amendments in this Update is not expected to be significant for 
public companies , the Board concluded that the amendments better reflect the 
economics of leasehold improvements associated with common control leases 
and will reduce diversity in practice; therefore, the amendments are applicable for 
all entities (that is, including public business entities).  

26 
BC30. In the proposed Update, the Board decided that leasehold improvements 
associated with common control leases should be amortized over the e conomic 
life of those improvements. The Board observed that using economic life as 
opposed to useful life would be appropriate for leasehold improvements associated 
with common control leases because economic life is not limited to entity -specific 
(that is, lessee-specific) assumptions about how an entity intends to use an asset. 
BC31. Many comment letter respondents  recommended that the Board re place 
amortizing leasehold improvements over their economic life with amortizing those 
improvements over the useful lif e to the common control group . Those 
respondents noted that using economic life  could be  challenging because 
impairment guidance in Topic 360 , Property, Plant, and Equipment,  specifically 
requires that an entity consider  the useful life . Additionally, amortizing leasehold 
improvements over the economic life would have required commonly controlled 
lessees to consider factors that are outside the control of the common control 
group. The Board agreed with those respondents and concluded that leasehold 
improvements associated with common control leases should be amortized by the 
lessee over the useful life of those improvements to the common control group  
(regardless of lease term) as long as the lessee controls the right to use the 
underlying asset through a lease. 
BC32. The Board also concluded that the amortization period for leasehold 
improvements associated with common control leases is limited to the period in 
which the common control group can direct the use of the underlying asset. 
Therefore, if the lessor under common control obtains the right to control the use 
of the underlying asset through a lease with another entity not within t he same 
common control group, the amortization period is limited to the lease term 
associated with that other lease , unless that other lease transfers ownership of 
the underlying asset to the lessor or the lessor is reasonably certain to exercise an 
option to purchase the underlying asset, in which case the lessee should amortize 
the leasehold improvements over the useful life to the common control group.  
BC33. The Board observed that entities may need to obtain information from the 
lessor or common owner or own ers to determine the useful life of leaseho ld 
improvements to the common control group. The Board observed that commonly 
controlled lessees will be able to readily obtain the necessary information from the 
commonly controlled lessor and the common owner or  owners to comply with the 
requirements.  
BC34. The Board expects that leasehold improvements associated with common 
control leases often may benefit another party within the common control group if, 
and when, the lessee no longer controls the use of the underlying asset. Therefore, 
the Board decided that the unamortized cost of the  leasehold improvements on 
that date should be accounted for as a transfer between entities under common 
control through equity (net assets for a not-for-profit entity). The Board concluded 
that this accounting faithfully represents the economics of leasehold improvements 
associated with common control leases and is consistent with how entities 

27 
currently account for transfers of other similar assets  to entities within the same 
common control group. The Board also concluded that this accounting 
appropriately reflects the derecognition of those improvements at the date of 
transfer.  
BC35. The Board decided against providing specific requirements  for situations 
in which a lessee does not expect to transfer leasehold improvements associated 
with a common control lease to another entity within the common control group if, 
and when, the lessee no longer controls the use of the underlying asset. The Board 
noted that the useful life of leasehold improvements to the common control group 
would include that expectation.  
BC36. The Board concluded that an entity with leasehold improvements 
associated with common control leases is required to apply the impairment 
requirements in Topic 360, particularly paragraph 360 -10-40-4. That paragraph 
requires that a long-lived asset (asset group) be tested for recoverability while the 
asset is held and used and an entity should consider estimates of future 
undiscounted cash flows based on the asset’s remaining useful life, assuming that 
a transfer will not occur.  Paragraph 360 -10-40-4 also requires that an entity 
recognize an impairment when the asset is transferred if the carrying amount of 
the asset exceeds its fair value at the transfer date. The Board concluded that this 
impairment guidance is appropriate for leasehold improvements associated with 
leases between entities under common control that may be transferred to another 
party within the common control group. Moreover, the Board observed that 
applying this impairment guidance effectively prohibits a lessee under common 
control from transferring leasehold  improvements at an amount that would be 
immediately impaired by the receiving entity. 
BC37. The Board decided that lessees that have leasehold improvements 
associated with common control leases in situations in which the useful life to the 
common control group is longer than the lease term  must make specific 
disclosures to enhance the transparency of th ose arrangements. The purpose of 
those required disclosures is to assist users of financial statements in analyzing 
those circumstances. Most comment letter respondents stated that the additional 
disclosures should provide investors and other allocators of capital with decision-
useful information.   
BC38. Most respondents who did not support the proposed amendments 
expressed a concern that commonly controlled lessees could establish leases with 
short lease terms  and avoid recognizing a lease liability while benefiting from 
recognizing leasehold improvements  on the balance sheet and amortizing t hose 
improvements over a longer period. Some respondents suggested that the Board 
require that commonly controlled lessees impute a lease for a period equal to the 
useful life of the leasehold improvements and recogniz e a corresponding lease 
liability and right-of-use asset. Other respondents suggested that the Board require 
that commonly controlled lessees fully amortize leasehold improvements over the 
shorter of the lease term and the useful life of those improvements to  incentivize 

28 
the common control parties to document a longer lease term.  Many of those 
respondents questioned whether an  inconsistency between the amortization 
period and the lease term used for recognizing lease li abilities would result in 
information that is decision useful. 
BC39. The Board agreed that situations may exist for which the amortization 
period for leasehold improvements associated with common control leases is 
longer than the lease  term. The Board concluded that the amendments  in this 
Update (including the disclosure requirements)  better reflect the economics of 
leasehold improvements associated with common control leases and clarify the 
accounting for those improvements. Furthermore, the Board rejected requiring that 
commonly controlled lessees impute a lease liability in situations in which no lease 
and corresponding obligation exist. The Board noted that the recognition of a n 
imputed lease liability would similarly require that an entity recognize a right-of-use 
asset that also does not exist. The Board further noted that requiring accounting 
that fa ils to reflect the economics of transfers of value between entities under 
common control to  incentivize those entities to  alter business arrangements is 
inconsistent with the objective of general purpose financial reporting.   
BC40. The Board acknowledged that for improvements made by a lessee to an 
underlying asset to be recognized as leasehold improvements, the lessee must be 
determined to be the accounting owner of the improvements. The Board further 
acknowledged that no separate GAAP exists for making that determination . The 
Board observed that practice has developed various approaches for determining 
the accounting owner of improvements made to an underlying asset . The Board 
decided not to develop requirements for determining the o wner of improvements 
made to an underlying asset as part of the amendments in this Update and noted 
that this determination is not unique to the application of Topic 842 or to common 
control leases.  
Effective Date  
BC41. The amendments in this Update for both Issue 1 and Issue 2 are effective 
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, including interim periods within 
those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted for both interim and annual financial 
statements that have not yet been made available for issuance. If an entity adopts 
the amendments in an interim period, it must adopt them as of the beginning of the 
fiscal year that includes that interim period.  
BC42. For Issue 1, the Board noted that many entities within the scope of the 
practical expedient will be adopting  the expedient concurrently with the adoption 
of Topic 842. For entities that have adopted Topic 842, the Board observed that 
those entities are already applying Topic 842 on the basis of enforceable terms 
and conditions, which can be readily documented in writing. Therefore, the Board 
concluded that a  delayed effective date and staggered interim reporting 
requirements for private entities were unnecessary.  

29 
BC43. For Issue 2, the Board concluded that additional time or stagger ed 
effective dates for annual and interim reporting periods were not warranted for any 
entities. Although some comment letter respondents suggested delayed effective 
dates for entities within the scope of Issue 1, the Board expects that those entities 
will adopt the amendments for Issue 2 concurrently with adopting Topic 842  to 
avoid applying the requirements in a future reporting period. For entities that have 
adopted Topic 842, the Board concluded that requiring all calendar-year-end 
entities to apply the amendments for Issue 2 on January 1, 2024 ( at the earliest) 
provides sufficient time to understand and obtain the information necessary to 
apply the amendments.  
Transition 
Issue 1: Terms and Conditions to Be Considered 
BC44. The Board decided that e ntities adopting the practical expedient in this 
Update concurrently with the adoption of Topic 842 are required to follow the same 
transition requirements used to apply Topic 842. 
BC45. The Board decided that all other entities are required to apply the practical 
expedient in this Update either: 
a. Prospectively to arrangements that commence or are modified on or after 
the date that the entity first applies the practical expedient  
b. Retrospectively to the beginning of the period in which the entity first 
applied Topic 842 for arrangements that exist at the date of adoption of 
the practical expedient. The practical expedient does not apply to 
common control arrangements no longer in place at the date of adoption 
of this Update. 
BC46. The Board also decided to provide specific transition guidance for: 
a. Changes in terms and conditions resulting from applying the 
amendments in this Update for arrangements that continue to be a lease  
b. Situations in which  an arrangement previously not considered a lease 
becomes a lease as a result of applying the amendments in this Update. 
BC47. Regardless of an entity ’s transition approach, the Board also concluded 
that an entity is permitted to document any existing unwritten terms and conditions 
of an arrangement between entities under c ommon control before the date on 
which the entity’s first interim (if applicable) or annual financial statements are 
available to be issued in accordance with the amendments in this Update.  
BC48. Some comment letter respondents questioned whether  the entity-wide 
election of the Topic 842 transition practical expedients in paragraph 842 -10-65-
1(f) or (g) would limit an entity’s ability to utilize the practical expedient in this 
Update. Therefore, the Board clarified that an entity is not required to apply those 

30 
Topic 842 transition practical expedients to common control arrangements for 
which the practical expedient is being applied.  
Issue 2: Accounting for Leasehold Improvements 
BC49. The Board decided that entities adopting the amendments in this Update 
concurrently with the adoption of Topic 842 may follow the same transition 
requirements used to apply Topic 842  or may  use either of the prospective 
approaches described below to avoid retrospectively accounting for leasehold 
improvements. 
BC50. The Board  decided that a ll other entities are required to apply the 
amendments in this Update using one of the following methods: 
a. Prospectively to all new leasehold improvements recognized on or after 
the date that an entity first applies the amendments in this Update  
b. Prospectively to all new and existing leasehold improvements recognized 
on or after the date that the entity first applies the amendments in this 
Update, with any remaining unamortized balance of existing leasehold 
improvements amortized over their remaini ng useful life to the common 
control group determined at that date 
c. Retrospectively to the beginning of the period in which the entity applied 
Topic 842 for leasehold improvements that exist at the date of adoption 
of this Update, with any leasehold improvements that otherwise would not 
have been amortized or impaired recognized through a cumulative-effect 
adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings (or net assets of 
a not-for-profit entity) at the earliest period presented in accordance with 
Topic 842. 

31 
Amendments to the GAAP Taxonomy 
The amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification ® in this 
Accounting Standards Update require improvements to the GAAP Financial 
Reporting Taxonomy and SEC Reporting Taxonomy (collectively referred to as the 
“GAAP Taxonomy ”). Those improvements, which will be incorporated into the 
proposed 202 4 GAAP Taxonomy, are available through GAAP Taxonomy 
Improvements provided at www.fasb.org, and finalized as part of the annual 
release process. 
 