
--- page 1 ---
       
 
EXPLANATORY 
MEMORANDUM 
 
 
 
 
  
PROPOSED STATEMENTS ON STANDARDS FOR 
CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION (CPE) 
PROGRAMS 
 
 
 
 
August 1, 2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory 
Memorandu
m 

--- page 2 ---
2 
 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
Page 
 
Introduction ......................................................................................................................... 3 
Background ......................................................................................................................... 3 
Summary of Significant Changes in the Proposed Standards ............................................. 3 
Effective Date ..................................................................................................................... 6 
Exposure Draft  
Proposed Statement on Standards for Continuing Professional Education Programs ........ 8 
--- page 3 ---
 
 
 
Explanatory Memorandum 
Introduction 
 
The Statement on Standards for Continuing Professional Education (CPE) Programs (Standards) 
is published jointly by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and the 
National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) to provide a framework for the 
development, presentation, measurement, and reporting of CPE programs.  
 
The Standards are periodically reviewed in their entirety by the CPE Standards Working Group  
(Working Group). The Working Group is comprised of thirteen  (13) members representing 
various stakeholders in CPE including state boards of accountancy, state societies, educators, 
CPE providers and the AICPA. If the Working Group determines that revisions or modifications 
are required, then the Working Group will make its recommendation to NASBA’s CPE 
Committee (CPE Committee), which in turn makes recommendations to the Joint 
AICPA/NASBA CPE Standards Committee (Joint Committee). The Joint Committee will then 
make its recommendation to the respective AICPA and NASBA Boards of Directors.  
 
The Standards are intended to be an “evergreen” document. The Standards  are reviewed and 
evaluated every two years from the effective date of the last revision to the document. The 
Standards were last revised with an effective date of January 1, 2024. 
 
Background 
 
Why the Proposed Standards Have Been Developed  
 
During the most recent revision cycle , the Working Group, a sub- committee of NASBA’s CPE 
Committee, considered the advancements in technology and learning platforms , the 
transformative impact of technology- assisted learning  and other innovations  in learning and 
learning modalities that seem to be blurring the lines of how the instructional delivery methods 
for CPE programs are currently defined in the Standards.  
 
The Working Group believed that it was time to holistically reconsider the instructional delivery 
methods and challenge what those might be in the future. In addition to considering the items 
noted above, the Working Group addressed challenges inherent in the current delivery methods 
of the Standards . The Working Group also created strategies for building flexibility to 
accommodate future innovations in learning and the design of professional education. 
 
Overarching Principles 
 
The overall direction of the project was influenced by the purview of the state boards of 
accountancy, which is focused on formal CPE learning programs that are measurable and 
verifiable. Seven principles of formal CPE learning programs were defined as the framework for 
the development, presentation, measurement,  and reporting of CPE programs. The seven 
principles are: 
 
--- page 4 ---
 
 
 
 
1. Learning Objectives 
2. Quality of CPE Program 
3. Participant Engagement 
4. CPE Program Completion Verification 
5. CPE Program Measurement 
6. Participant Communication 
7. Required Documentation of CPE Programs 
 
The proposed Standards  (Proposal) have been reorganized in sections (instead of the current 
standards/paragraphs format) by the seven principles to simplify the presentation of the Standards 
and improve readability. The Proposal  has expanded the “principles” based approach to help 
create flexibility to accommodate future changes and innovations in learning. (CPE programs that 
qualify for CPE credit under the extant 2024 version of the Standards will continue to qualify for 
CPE credit under the Proposal.) 
 
 
Summary of Significant Changes in the Proposed Standards 
 
• Introduction – The Introduction and Preamble from the extant  2024 version of the 
Standards have been revised and combined into the Introduction in the Proposal . Most 
concepts have been retained. 
• Definitions – Renamed from Article I in the extant 2024 version to Section 1 in the 
Proposal. Updates to definitions to reflect proposed changes and modification throughout 
the document. 
• Article II – General Guidelines for CPAs from the extant 2024 version of the Standards 
has been removed. Article II was historically included in the Standards to explain overall 
guidelines and requirements of CPE for CPAs to CPE program providers. It was not 
intended to be a resource to CPAs regarding specific jurisdiction CPE requirements. 
Certain information from paragraph 2.1, Professional Competence, was incorporated into 
the Introduction of the Proposal. In the spirit of simplifying and improving the readability 
of the Standards, the rest of extant Article II has been removed from the Proposal. 
• Article III –  Standards for CPE Programs has been reformatted to Section 2 – General 
Standards in the Proposal. This section now sets out the formal learning programs and 
learning activities which qualify for CPE under the Standards: formal learning programs; 
instructor/speaker activities; author/developer activities; and content reviewer activities. 
[Note: References to independent study and college and university credit from the extant 
2024 version of the Standards  have been removed from the Proposal  and participants 
directed to refer to their State board of accountancy for guidance on this type of credit . 
State boards of accountancy rules and regulations typically include specific requirements 
regarding the acceptance of college and university credit. Only approximately fourteen 
(14) out of the 55 state boards of accountancy accept CPE credit for independent study 
programs and all 14 boards require that any independent study program be approved by 
the board in advance. Therefore, those areas do not seem meaningful to include in the 
Proposal.] 
• Paragraph 2.02.1 of Section 2 – General Standards further explains that formal learning 
--- page 5 ---
 
 
 
programs are defined within the Proposal  as group program s, self study programs, or 
blended learning program s. The Proposal provides the types of program s that could 
qualify as a group program, corresponding to programs defined as Group Live and Group 
Internet-Based programs from the extant 2024 version of the Standards . Self study 
programs are described as, but not limited to, traditional on -demand learning programs, 
adaptive learning programs, and nano learning programs. The description of blended 
learning programs is unchanged from the extant 2024 version of the Standards. 
• Section 3 – Standards for Learning Objectives has been carried forward from the extant 
2024 version of the Standards (Standard No. 2 and No. 3). 
• Section 4 – Standards for Quality of CPE Program ha s been carried forward from the 
extant 2024 version of the Standards  with some minor edits (Standard No. 4, No.5, No. 
13, No. 14, No. 15, and No. 9 paragraph S9-07). 
• Section 5 –  Standards for Participant Engagement carries forward the concept of an 
element of engagement for Group Live programs for the extant 2024 version of the 
Standards (Standard No.7). However, it expands the requirement for learning 
engagement to all types of formal CPE programs and includes examples for group 
programs, self study programs, and blended learning programs. 
• Paragraph 5.01.2.2 of Section 5 – Standards for Participant Engagement provides 
guidance for the use of review questions as participant engagement in self study 
programs. The Proposal includes a change in the requirements for feedback on review 
questions to move away from r equiring evaluative feedback for each incorrect answer 
and reinforcement feedback for the correct answer. Input from CPE Program sponsors 
indicates that these feedback requirements are the most time -consuming and difficult 
requirements to  comply for self study programs in the extant 2024 version of the 
Standards. Additionally, many platforms currently available for the design and 
development of self study programs have limitations providing feedback for review 
questions.  
The Proposal still requires feedback to be provided for review questions and other content 
reinforcement tools but allows for more principles -based feedback. The Proposal 
provides guidance that the objective of the feedback is to reinforce understanding, 
highlight knowledge gaps and provide additional resources for learning comprehension. 
Section 6 – Standards for CPE Program Completion Verification carries forward Standard 
16 paragraph S16-02 from the extant 2024 version of the Standards. Paragraph 6.01.1 of 
the Proposal emphasizes that for group programs, program completion verification 
methods should account for  both individual presence and the time duration of such 
presence to address significant compliance issues that currently exist with Registry 
sponsors. The Proposal  allows the sponsor to choose a completion verification method 
for group programs and provides examples. Completion verification for self study 
programs is mostly carried forward from the extant 2024 versions of the Standards  
(Standard No. 9 paragraphs S9- 04 and S9- 05 and Standard 10 paragraphs S10- 01 and 
S10-02). Completion verification for blended learning programs is carried forward from 
the extant 2024 version of the Standards  (Standard No. 11 paragraphs S11- 02 through 
S11-03). 
• Section 7 – Standards for CPE Program Measurement proposes changes to the amount of 
CPE credit that can be earned initially for group programs and self study programs. The 
Proposal allows for group program credit to be earned initially as one -half credit or one 
--- page 6 ---
 
 
 
full credit. The Proposal also allows for self study program credit to be earned in one -
fifth or one-half credit initially. If one-fifth credit is earned initially, it permits additional 
credit to be earned in one-fifth increments. 
There are state boards of accountancy that currently permit CPE credits to be earned in 
these initial increments for group and self study programs . Emphasis has been included 
in the Proposal that rules and regulations of state boards of accountancy may differ on the 
acceptable increments of CPE credit and CPE program sponsors should comply with 
those rules in awarding CPE credit. 
The proposed change in self study CPE increment s is inten ded to provide greater 
flexibility for shorter learning activities and to lay the foundation for future simplification 
within the Standards.  As the state boards of accountancy evaluate and adopt these 
increments over time, the distinction between nano learning and traditional self study 
learning programs may become less necessary. 
At this time, nano learning continues to be retained as a distinct category within the 
Standards because many state boards of accountancy currently recognize nano learning 
credits as a separate CPE delivery method.  Retaining nano learning as a delivery method 
helps ensure continuity with existing regulatory frameworks and current sponsor 
practices while allowing the Standards to evolve toward a more streamlined structure in 
future revisions.  
The guidance for the minimum required number of review questions and qualifie d 
assessment questions for self study programs has been expanded and revised based on the 
proposed changes. See paragraphs 5.01.2.1 and 6.01.2.  
• Section 7 – Standards for CPE Program Measurement - In the spirit of simplifying and 
improving the readability of the Standards, the measurement methodology paragraphs for 
traditional on-demand self study  programs and adaptive learning programs from the 
extant 2024 version of the Standards  have been combined with specific call -out for 
differences in the sample sizes for pilot testing and the use of an average of all potential 
learning paths for the word count formula. Section 7 also permits the use of participant 
actual completion time for adaptive learning if the learning platform or technology can 
track individual participant completion time. 
• Section 7 – Standards for CPE Program Measurement carries forward the CPE credit 
determination methodologies for nano learning and blended learning programs for the 
extant 2024 version of the Standards (Standard No. 18 and No. 19). Section 7 also carries 
forward the CPE credit measurement guidance for instructor/speakers; author/developers; 
and content reviewers from the extant 2024 version of the Standards  (Standard No. 20, 
No. 21, and No. 22).  
• Section 8 – Standards for Participant Communication carries forward the participant 
communication requirements and guidance from the extant 2024 version of the Standards 
(Standard No. 12 and language from Standard 16 paragraph S16-03). 
• Section 9 – Standards for Required Documentation of CPE Programs carries forward the 
guidance from the extant 2024 version of the Standards for the certificate of completion 
(Standard No. 23). The Proposal reorganizes the guidance from the extant 2024 version 
of the Standards and includes specific requirements with examples of documentation for 
each type of formal CPE learning program: group programs, self study programs and 
blended learning programs. 
--- page 7 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date 
 
 August 1, 2026 
 
Unless otherwise established by state licensing bodies or other professional organizations, 
these Standards are to be effective as follows: 
 
1. For group programs or self study  programs already existing as of July 31, 2026, the 
changes will need to be in effect by November 1, 2028. 
2. For group and self study programs in development and/or being published for the first 
time, the changes will be effective March 1, 2027. 
3. For initial or additional delivery method applications for group programs or self study, 
the changes will be effective August 1, 2026. 
 
 
 
  